The Blackburne Gambit.  Black gives up a pawn to try to get faster development.
Black has slightly better Bishops and a tiny lead in development, but is still down a pawn.
Black is happy to trade Queens with a three-pawn edge.  All three of Black's Kingside pawns are unopposed.
Preparing d5 which wins a piece. White has the dynamic advantages (development and initiative) as well as a lead in space.
Some of the pressure has been relieved from Black's position. Trading pieces when you have less space (as Black does in this position) is generally considered a good thing. Now Black has pressure on White's center and is caught up in development.
Trading pieces does nothing but help Black.
As pointed out by 'heinzkat,' this move was a mistake for Black.  After 20. Qxc5 ...dxc5   21. Rxe5 Black has lost his material advantage.  Black also is now on the defensive as his c5 pawn is under attack.
Another bad trade. This time White doesn't even get even material on his investment. White wanted an opportunity for a back rank mate but Black controls the e8 square twice and has time to advance the h or g pawn.
black have to played 7...O-O
19. Kg6 not good 20. Nh4+ Nh6 21. Nxf5+ Kg5 22. Rxg7+ Kf6 23. Qc6+ Bd6 24. Qxd6+ Kxf5 25. Qd5+ Ne5 26. Qxe5#
Black Resigned Qf8 24. Qe8#
Hi to all. First, I say "My English is very poor". Sorry if I committed mistakes in the annotation of the game. This is my first annotated game, a very dynamical play in a very sharp variation of the Two Knights defense. I used the StockFish for the postmortem analysis, but I tried to gives  my own calculations in the game and, if I or my opponent did't see a critical variation, estimates with the chess engine.
I prefer this variation to the alternative 3... Bc5. But, matter of taste!
If I played this position with white, I had moved 4 d4. But, againg, matter of taste, both variation are theoretical.
Two Knights defense, Traxler variation. I played, few years ago, this maneuver. Actually, I am playing the Fritz variation ( 4... d5 5 exd5 Nd4) without bad results. With the 4 ... d5 variation too is possible 5 ... Na5 (normal variation, I think) and 5 ... b5.<n><n> Now, white has three principal moves: 5 Bxf7+ (In my juice, the strongest move) 5 d4 and the move of the game, fork queen and rook.
Black needs take risks, now.. This move is theoretical. I tried to remember variations of this line
I didn't remember the main variation, but I think about this natural move with check keep the attack
This move is strong, better than Qxc4. However, I don't see something in the continuation of the game
This move lost the game, in my opinion. White had Rh4 (I analyzed the postmortem with StockFish and white keep advantage in material). I don't see Rh4 in the game, only analyzes 11 Be2 and I was planned castle in the position. The variation in my mind was 11 Be2 0-0 (the knight is pinned) 12 Kg2 Rxf7 and white's king isn't in a sure place.<n><n>The variation gives for SF is 11 Rh4 e4+ 12 Kg2 0-0 13 Bb3 Rxf7  (0.73 for white). The attack vanishes on the lines of the engine!!!
Capturing the queen and balances the material. Now, the position of the white king (and the development of the black pieces) gives a big advantage.
Kind of a strange move on my part, but the computer agrees, and it keeps pressure on white.
Opens the rook to attack, but the rook is trapped, so no need to take it this turn.
Honestly didn't see this coming. Threatens the d pawn, but I decided just to trade, as the knight wouldn't have much support.
Wasn't expecting this.
Stay! Knowing the game was drawn, I offered a draw. He accepted. This game demonstrates the effective creation of a non-absolute fortress (with a little help).
Sicilian, Nimzovich-Rubinstein; Rubinstein counter-gambit (he says, as if he knew this opening at the time)
I was guided by the opening database a bit here, to be honest this isn't the sort of opening I'm entirely comfortable with.
Recaptures the pawn and develops at the same time. I'm always a bit wary of having one pawn on a solo mission in enemy territory as it feels a bit like over-extending, but it came good in this game.
I actually thought this was a mistake and black forgot about the en passant here, but the computer analysis apparently has no problem with this.
Only reply that makes sense as far as I can see, white is now back level and has a pretty good position, with a passed pawn cramping black.
At the time of playing this move I'd been reading a bit of Aron Nimzowitch's 'My System' where he was talking about overprotection, insisting that strong points should be protected more times than they are defended. Apparently this 'good deed' reaps rewards just in itself, so I thought I'd test out this theory here - d6 is a strong point and a thorn in black's side, so white defends it a 3rd time even though it is only attacked once.
White wins a pawn, and has a very attacking position.
Attacking the undefended rook, but if the rook tries to hide by ..Rg8, Nf6+ and blacks only legal reply is ..Qxf6, and Bxf6 wins the queen. I was a bit unsure about how to deal with the reply ..Nb4, although fortunately for me black didn't try that.
And white wins a rook. The name of the game now is "don't do anything stupid", this game should be a straightforward win.
Black either has to exchange off his rook or retreat and let white start eating pawns, so he quite sensibly resigned here.
I'm publishing this blitz game and annotation both to show an interesting opening and middle game, as well as hoping to learn from the mistakes that I made.<n>There was an early transposition in my opening, and a really unorthodox and risky opening for black. I took the center and almost came off with a pretty big advantage due to black's opening of both his kingside and queenside and lack of development, however I messed it up and soon onward the rest of the game favored black with some blunders on my part.<n>Constructive comments are welcome on this game.
Unorthodox opening. My instinct is to claim the center.
I've decided now for simple classical development.
At this point, none of black's pieces are developed. I have full control of the center, and while he is cutting off immediate options for my minor pieces, all it takes is to open a hole and I'm able to wreak havoc for a while.
A compensation for his lack of minor-piece activity: he has a pretty threatening pawn presence on my kingside, with his rook and minor pieces right behind them. At the time, I wasn't convinced that this mattered, though black was able to pull it through in the end.
g3 instead? The loss of the g pawn is what caused all of my problems for the rest of the game.
I resigned.<n>In retrospect, at several points in the game it looked (superficially, anyway) like I might have been able to pull off checkmate. In the short analysis I did, it doesn't actually look like a checkmate would have happened as a result of the positions (around move 15 and again at move 20), because black was able to adequately defend. However, if I hadn't blundered in the queen exchange and in underestimating black's h-pawn, the game could have been in my favor as a result of black's questionable (in my opinion) opening.
sicilain variation; tried to confuse opponent
variation of the sicilian kan defense
was forced; f8 would have lost tempi; also note that this has caused a kingsde weakness and a hole on f6 which was the ideal place for a knight which can be easily attacked
forcing exchange of queens; note exchanging simplifying the position when down in material leads to a losing endgame; you should never try to exchange when down in material; white happliy accepted queen trade
barraging the kingside through an onslaught of pieces in perfect coordination
this exchange has a purpose, for if he takes my bishop-
opening up the f file for the rook
have you noticed- my queen side pieces are still sleeping. this will prove dangerous later
not good actually, for he has now disrupted my pawn chain
this move is where he lost the game for i simply move
move my rook, his g pawn is lost
This is a very unusual move. Typically, Black will trade here. <n>I've faced this before and ended up playing Kh2, but I see a recommendation to play g4. We'll see.
Now I can't guard all of my pawns. After a3, he'll trade off my knight on f3 and then win the pawn on d4. And after that pawn dies, can I hold on to the pawn on e5?<n>I may have to punt this game. I'm not sure I remember ever getting into a worse position with this opening.
Should I move the rook and let him have the bishop, or should I trade the rook for a pawn and a knight? That choice is easy. What I suppose, though, is after those trades, he'll force trades on b4 and e3, and my pawns will become unsupportable.
I saw this opponent's  move and was prepared.
This was a game i recently played on playchess.com<n>It is a good example of how being aggressive pays off in otb chess, much more than correspondance chess.<n>Please leave comments using the new facility to do so. I haven't analysed very thoroughly, as this was more a game of instinct than calculated moves
Castle often castle early is the standard advice. I could have played Qb6 picking up a pawn, but in the heat of a blitz game i missed this.
If this was a correspondence game i would most likely have analysed thoroughly and decided to quietly retreat. However a move like this is excellent for a blitz game with too many threats and variations to calculate besides the obvious.
This move was unnecessary, far better would have been 14...f6. This move reduces the number of pieces in the attack, thus reducing the threat the attack carries
A critical mistake by my opponent, had he taken the rook the position would be roughly equal although thats difficult to see in a blitz game. The move played allows my rooks to infiltrate and show how powerful they can be working together with the queen once most pieces have been removed from the board
This move had me struggling for a few seconds until realising..
Miscalculation under time pressure here. I thought i would win the queen, however...
Good he found it ;)
Entering the Grunfeld Defense. More suiting my style of late is 3.Nf3, making sure Black gets in the King's Indian Defense.
Usually you don't want to bring out your queen this early on and this far, but it has a strong purpose on a5.
Without queens on the board and the lack of black's development, I don't have to worry so much about attacks against my king.
I offered a draw based on us both having dark/light square bishops and equal material without any sight of an endgame advantage for each side. The pawn on e7 falls in no time after Kf7 and Rc7. A solid game from both players. Black seemed to play with more purpose, but came up short on an advantage.
Another interesting game is 7.Bb3 follow GM Goran Kosanovic - GM Michael Roiz game with ended with brilliant queen sacrifice. See http://chesslodge.blogspot.com/2006/11/michael-roiz.html.
23. cxd4 Nxd4 24. Bxd7 Nxb3 25. Qe2 Rc7
The Dutch Defense
Black aims for a queenside fianchetto combined with pressure down the f-file after ...O-O.
Game #3 against Mr. Jabbawock. The first two were in a mini-tournament but this one is a direct challenge from him - he poked the bear. I'm playing black and we start off with the Sicilian.
This move avoids the Chekhover variation. I've been having some fun with it, bringing out the queen early as white, and I don't want to play black against it.
The English Attack against the Najdorf. Pretty mainline stuff so far.
This is a game from the first round of the 37th GK tournament.   This is, I think, a good lesson in early development.  Let me know what you think.
The Scandinavian or centre-counter attack.  I don't mind playing against this variation as white, since I think that developing the black Queen at this early stage allows white some initiative.
Offering the D pawn for extra development and initiative...
again nothing better, white has as easier game I don't have any plan so I'll keep developing my last pieces...
now my king will help to secure the defence of the d column, so I'll let with occupy it with his rooks and try to exchange one of the rooks to make it harder for him to infiltrate my position
Rd5 and I can start writing this game epitaph...
my opponent commented Rd6 but I prefer to N get a distant passed pawn, as it gives me more leverage the b and c pawns are controlled by the king, and with a distant passed pawn only black has a chance to play for a win, but even then only with white playing inferior moves... with correct play white should hold the draw perhaps simplifying in to a rook's endgame with one pawn deficit
?!<n>Most modern books on the Benoni do not even cover this move and for good reason. It is way to slow! The appeal of this move is that white essentially shuts the door on tactics for the time being. Holding true the Stientz altruism, "It is better to keep your enemy at arms length until you have finished developing." Well he did not say that exactly.
A very good idea! Black who has all the time in the world can flick in ...b7-b5 whenever he feels like it. <n>Alternative variation: 9... Nh5 [!?] 10. Nxh5 gxh5 11. Bd3 Nd7 [ has turned out well for black in practice]
creating an annoyance for black but this should be very easy for black to handle. This move along with it's Bf4 cousin are easy victims for the benoni player.
?! and this is not it. <n>Alternative variation: 13... Qb6 14. Qd2 Nh7 [⩱][ has scored very well for black in 2500+ play]<n>Alternative variation: 13... Nf8 14. Qd2 N8h7 15. Bh6 Bh8 [⩲]
..the pawn is a long term problem already and i have to try and get rid of it.
White lost this game on a single move and resigned, seeing the probable damage. <n>This was my 20th game so now actually rated on Gameknot !!
I'm playing black here and i haven't noticed how high his grade is yet.
coaching match... a very close match which demonstrates the strength of linked pawns vs loose pawns in an endgame... with each move, i will also post the gamenotes as discussed during the game as an added insight (they will be in these <<>> things), though there are one or two occasions where i made some errors of judgement, and only with the benefit of hindsight was i able to see how silly i sounded, especially when i predict white's collapse!<n><n><<<(Taufiq) My "normal" opening.. >>>
not my usual opening, in fact i never play e5. currently i'd most likely play caro-kann (c6), though i often play sicilian (c5) or french (e6) also... but this, i am led to believe, is a better opening for training purposes...<n><n><<<(Tugger) e4 is my usual opening too... normally, i'd reply with c5, as i belive it to be blacks strongest defence, but i will play e5, as i'm told it provides a better chance to learn. i don't know if you've discovered it yet, but the database is an excellent tool for learning openings, take the link under 'resign' and have a look... it can make things awkward though, too, as if your opponent moves off-book quickly, you can find yourself lost in an unfamiliar opening...>>>
<<<(Taufiq) Yes, I've allready looked to the Game DB, and I find it very helpfull !<n><n>Now, the attack with my horse forces you to cover your e-pawn.. >>>
<<<(Tugger) Indeed... i'm not comfortable playing Nf6 and attacking your e-pawn too, and a gambit isn't really appropriate! i might look into f5 in the future, i like gambits! they can provide huge development advantages that far outweigh the pawn loss... for now though i'll stick with Nc6...>>><n><n>of course, i meant the gambit wasn't appropriate for black, Nf6 could encourage the gambit (Nxf7) for white, which i play often.
not too good with opening theory, especially this opening, but at this stage the game appears to be balanced, with equal development and no positional advantage for either player... <n><n><<<(Tugger) Since my black bishop is active, i would prefer not to have to withdraw him to unpin the knight, so h6 it is...>>>
<<<(Taufiq) If you re-capture my pawn with your d-pawn, you're opening a line for queens-exchange..>>>
not sure if this is poor play or not... i'm happy to encourage endgame, as my pawn structure is superior, so the queen trade suits me...<n><n><<<(Taufiq) Ok, I'll try to remember your advice :)>>>
<<<(Taufiq) Maybe not a good idea to trade such amount of pieces ?>>>
and the bishop trade forced, though his g-pawn will move to the f-file, offering support to his doubled pawns, thus strengthening his position...<n><n><<<(Tugger) I don't think it was the best tactic, mainly because i can now also force the bishop trade, but at least you are limiting my attacking options too... it probably increases the chance of a draw, but certainly decreases the chance of you winning... it will be harder to win pawns now...>>>
definitely best... of course, white had to attack the knight, or he would lose his for nothing... and if 23. Kf3 Nxe5  24. Kf4 Ng6  and my knight is protected, his is attacked, and he's in check... his knight is lost with any hope of winning...<n><n><<<(Taufiq) 23. Kg3 is the best move, if you ask me ? In that way I protect my h-pawn.. If I moved 23. Kf3, then 23. ... Nxh2 would check me again..>>>
? with the benfit of hindsight, i think Nxe5 would've been stronger, but i was greedy and thought i would take the lead...<n><n><<<(Tugger) Yeah, Kg3 was definitely best...<n><n>after good analysis, you're not yet on the verge of collapse, but i certainly have the stronger position now... those pawns on the e-file are a big problem for you... your biggest concern in endgame is the h g pawn push, with only one pawn defending... made possible due to your f-pawn moving onto the e file... and for you, i guess the best thing you can do is put pressure on my b c pawns, though i'm not sure you'll be able to succeed in winning back the pawn, i should be able to hold you off and pressure your e-pawns... you must avoid trading pieces, too... once you've lost one more, i can look at the pawn push...>>>
indeed... note how the position has changed for white from trebled pawns on the e-file to a single passed pawn... my huge positional advantage has evaporated...<n><n><<<(Taufiq) Thanks for the compliment ! I'm doing my best with learning how to play chess.. You're helping alot with your explanation, thanks !!<n><n>Now, I wanted to make 32. Nxe6, but you've told it right on time, about the danger.. This is a safer plan to do, I think..>>>
? the smallest of errors, this move loses for white, and i didn't realise it for a few more moves yet. crucially, it is my king that wins, he is now free!
indeed... <n>40. Rh6  Ke5 and the pawn is lost<n>40. Rh8 Ke5 41. Re8  Kd4 and he'll lose one of the pawns in the process of protecting the other...<n>and moving the king to protect the rook is futile, since i'll just trade and force his king further from the action...
this move is correct, in that it keeps him alive that little bit longer, and makes sure i earn the win...!
! and here is the winning move... i could've played Kd3 first, that would've been a quicker win, but i wanted to demonstrate a pawn sac to win an endgame... and i didn't want the weak Ke2 to be the reason he lost...<n><n><<<(Tugger) I had two options here... Kd3 was one option, but i have gone for the more tactical c2!, as it is a perfect exapmle of a pawn sac winning an endgame... it will demonstrate the strength of the king in endgame... i feel there is a little more to learn this way...<n><n>.<n><n>how well do you finish your opponent off when you have a won game...? i assume you have no problems with Q vs K, or R vs K, but if you would like, i will be happy to continue to mate or at least mate next move before drawing this off and concluding our coaching game... i will promote to rook or queen, as you desire... otherwise, i will offer the draw after promotion...>>>
and the pawn is lost...
and a shake of the hands and draw it off... it was an unrated coaching game, the result not important... what is important is hopefully my opponent got a valuable endgame lesson here...
Pawn move nr 5.  It is considered to be a "chess sin" to move the same piece twice in the opening. (but of course the game of chess is far too complicated to be summerized in such generalities. There are lots of exceptions to this rule. )
It was not so easy to find a good move here for white, this move at least takes a pawn but ....
The rook is lost.
...but that's not to say we're going to play a normal game! This is the Patzer opening, usually associated with beginner play. There is a thematic trap here that I have fallen for a few times in the past [2...g6?? 3.Qxe5+!] Though the opening is considered weak [actually, using GK analysis this isn't too horrible an opening], I don't get my hopes up - he played an even weaker opening against Joanne [jstevens1] and disposed of her in just 30 moves - and that was against a player 400 rating points above my own! Here's the annotation of that game; http://gameknot.com/annotation.pl/when-or-where-is-it-safe-to-castle?gm=31623
The queen returns to the d1 square - counter-intuitive, to be sure, but I'm guessing that this was played to let me have a bit of an advantage to compensate for the huge difference in rating
Natual - development while saving the e4 pawn at the same time
...and Freddy hinders it - a mirror image of the pawns on the a-file
Running this game through the Gameknot Database, the number of inaccuracies from both sides add up to... zero. So far, both sides have played solid games, and the game has been pretty much equal throughout. Freddy did admit after this move that he hadn't been playing his best in this game, but still, keeping toe-to-toe with a player so much better than I am is cool :)
?? And this move is a big no-no! As I've mentioned, this has been an equal game so far, excluding 28...f5. Now, two moves later, Black is totally losing! Just goes to show how sudden and unforgiving chess can be at times...
Walks into a mate in eight, but this game is hopelessly lost anyway. If you want to try and work it out, here's the puzzle from this position; http://gameknot.com/chess-puzzle.pl?pz=29034
!! Only after Freddy had played this move did the computer see the mate - I'll give him two exclams for that! :)
Game over! possibly my best try against the Master Mater so far, but still, it could have been an even better attempt if it weren't for my 29th move... still, good game!
This was an unrated training game. Non the less it was very hard fought. In the opening early middlegame white has a small plus than by the late middlegame black had turned it around and had the advantage. In the transition from middlegame into the endgame white regained the advantage and went on to convert for the full point.
And blacks K-side pawns fall .If 51...Kc5 52.Rc7ch Kd5 53.Rxc4 bxc 54.Kb4 with a won pawn ending.
the side with the advantage will always want to exchage pieces.
Opening with the night (pretty standard)
pretty much my standard opening move
Best move at the time, if I had seen the whole of the game I would have realized that I was not just saving my queen, but threatening an exchange for my bishop.  But I wasn't paying enough attention.
Has he gotten a little greedy, or has he moved into end-game, leaving me in the dust?
Of course the best reply for black is meant to be the tal gambit which is 2...d5 I knew however that my opponent wasn't likely to know this.
I'm not sure if this is right, I know it's not often a move done in the GPA however it felt right in the position.
Luckily my opponent didn't play c4.
?! a rather dubious move. It was meant to be a rook lift however I suspect it is a little early for that.
Unfortunalty it also means I dont have the time to make my attack on the pawn.
? I really think this move was a mistke. as now the knight is effectvly trapped in the middle of the board. I'm not sure what I would have done if black had played 16...Nh6. It has already been a messy sort of game.
! I thought this would win the knight however my opponent after quite a bit of thinking came up with a soloution.
! now I can no longer win a piece. however I can easily win a pawn if I choose. But this is I think still the best move in this position.
? A mistake or probably this deserves a ?? since black gets three pawns for the piece but more importantly a monster protected passed pawn on the 7th rank! my thinking was that I could take the piece then snaffle a coulpe of other pawns I thought that I would have enough on the a pawn to keep it under raps. Which was very wrong and probably should have lost me the game!<n><n>The simple 22.a3! Nc2 23.Nxc2 bxc2 23.Qxc2 would have left me a pawn up with a comfortable position.
Oly real option.
! This forces blacks hand and allows me to set up my fortress in which black will find it very difficult. Keep in mind it was getting quite late at this point and as the game goes on we were both getting tired and my opponent was very low on time, he came down to seconds a few times only being saved by the 30 second increment.
At this stage it was basically 12:30 at night and we were the only two left in the club meeting room. My opponent was short on time and I was playing for a draw. With this move I pointed out to my opponent that the position had reppeated itself three times with the same person to move and all. My opponent disagreed and we came to the descision that we would play it out and if it didn't end up as a draw then we would set up the position again and see if it was a three fold reppition. And I can say it definatly was.
This position has also reppeated itself three times.
a waiting move, now that black has cut off contcact between his king and the rest of his army I think a draw is secured.
My opponent agreed to a draw at this point. This was a very long tough battle and I am very happy with the way I played, in the endgame inpaticular, I think it is a very educational endgame and I think I played it basically correctly. Please tell me if I am mistaken on this count since I dont want to find out my enthusiasim is mispalced.
Though I didn't know it at the time, this Bishop placing is helpful.
time for a tactical shot here breaking the kings defences.
White has developed normally: occupying the centre with his pawns, developing a knight. Black, by contrast, has played the rare Global Opening, developed by IM Michael Basman. This can be played against pretty much any opening by White or Black, and is aimed at controlling and expanding on the wings.
White's knight takes up an unstable position in the centre of the board, in Black's side, in order to threaten Black's advanced kingside pawns immediately, as well as pressurise the weak f7-pawn. Black, for his part, quickly shores up his space advantage and his g-pawn. However, this does not catch up in development! My IM chess teacher would kill ME if I did what Black is doing...but a GM can get away with it...hmmmmm...
White logically decides that his best chance against White's slow development is to highlight this disadvantage by developing quickly, and gaining another tempo with an attack on Black's f7-pawn.
!! A lovely move. Here, the beauty of this position is demonstrated. White is ahead on development by 3 pieces to 0, has established a classical pawn centre, has done everything the opening manuals tell us to do...but he is lost! Black's pawns control much more space than White's pieces do: White's pieces, for all their development, are immobile and sitting ducks. If Andre Dani Philidor had seen this, he would have pointed out to us, "There you go. I told you that pawns are the soul of chess". White's pieces are unable to prevent an eventual ...c5, which wins a minor piece.
A drawish variation.
Now that Black has tied down White's Q-side, his K can wreak havoc on the K-side. And White has accomplished absolutely nothing with his last 10 moves.
Black is slowly closing in for the kill.
a waste of time.
I had to look up this opening, the Scandinavian defense.
If so, it's a pretty easy defense.
I'm actually happy with this diagonal, I love how it puts pressure on the f7 pawn.
I'm hoping this attack on the c7 pawn distracts him from my real goal. (His King, obviously.)
Good game.
Here is a recent team game vs. my good friend and rival team captain (and the only guy I know who spends more time on GK than me:), achilles13. With the black pieces, I employ a Najdorf Sicilian vs. his 1. e4, and a pretty clean middle game is reached with both sides fairly equal. Unexpectedly, my opponent decided to sac a piece giving him a 3-1 queenside pawn majority which threatened to wreak havoc. Luckily, I was able to block his advance utilizing my piece advantage and some pretty good coordination of my forces. The thing I liked most about this game is that my king was used in a very offensive role and I was fortunate enough to have my pieces accomplishing multiple tasks with minimal movement. Thanks to achilles13 for the good game! I hope you enjoy:)
And here is the typical Najdorf variation of the Sicilian defence. I have only recently grown the stones to start playing the Sicilian. I am 36 years old, and have been playing chess for about 25 years. Trust me when I tell you that I have played 10's of thousands of games in my life (including the ridiculous 6500 something here on GK). Of all of those games, I would guess that only in a few hundred have I played 1...c5 vs. 1. e4. For those that know me, I'm a Scandanavian player. I have realized (finally!) that I am entirely too predictable, so I have put a few of my fears to rest and have started branching out some. To me, the Sicilian has always represented some of the most scary (yet oddly thrilling) aspects of playing with the black pieces. There are just too many variations that can arise, and I have always tried to steer towards more simple, straight-forward opening lines. In doing some reading (and also going through some great annotations right here on GK), I have decided to tackle the Najdorf. Hopefully with some practice, I can safely add it to my repitoire and not feel suicidal in doing so.......
After a standard opening, white develops and throws a protective hit on his Nd4. As my own "book knowledge" of the Najdorf is still a book with only one page in it, I can't yet find a lot of fault with this move. 6. Bf4 is the move I probably would have chosen, however, as it exerts more control over the dark squares. I only mention this because when I have the white pieces, no one ever gets the chance to play the Najdorf against me because I play 1. d4 almost exclusively. (***note to self*** A. Only ONE major change at a time. Once you're comfortable with the Sicilian, try playing something else as white, B. Quit telling the world about your tendancies - if you need catharsis then go get a shrink:)
Maintaining clear lines for development and supporting e5. If this joker is weak now or not I don't know. What I do know is that rapid development in support of my aim to maintain tempo and initiative are all important. If I have to address the "problems" of my d pawn later then so be it.
And the race commences for c file dominance.
While white cannot control the whole c file, he CAN control c3. This is a somewhat unconfortable square for his rook, however.
Still controlling c4 by hitting it this time instead of occupying it. I was also a little wary of my back rank so I closed down his access to it via the e file.
! Notice how this move paralyzes white's position. ALL of white's pieces are locked down protecting c3.
?! And here is where I started listening to the demented, confused little voices in my head. I rationalized that every time I took heat off of c3, so could he. I debated and debated. I finally figured that the tiny material advantage I had may just be enough to win - but it would require my king to put on his gloves and get into the ring. If I didn't have my a pawn on the board I would not have considered this. I mentally took all four rooks and both queens off of the board. That would leave my bishop vs. his three pawns - which is a pretty equal fight. However, his king could reach the action before me, so the presence of my a pawn gave me the fortitude to attempt this trade down of material. Risky.....but exciting chess!
I had every intention of protecting my half of the board by playing this move. It also protects some space for my king to operate in. But I did not anticipate how valuable this move was until a few more moves transpired.
Opening a lane for his king to enter the fray.
This rook is so very constricted........
? Quite possibly a mistake. This move does straddle white with isolated pawns, but they are amply protected and his king gets back into the fight for the control of space.
White has little other choice here. The protection of c4 is STILL killing him.
My good friend is far too shrewd for that, so we continue to grind it out.
....but it does lead to this one!
I resigned. I didn't see how I could keep fighting with one piece less
This is a training game with me and a new player to my over-the-board club! We live in neighbouring villages! I am annotating it to help him learn!
e3 is not a bad opening move. It makes it hard for black to attack f2, and prepares to develop the Bf1.
This is a good move, chipping away on the black centre.
This is a truly dreadful move. It blocks the diagonal for the bishop. White shouldn't be thinking of developing the queen so early. Instead 6. Nc3 and Bb4+ have been played before.
Computer doesn't like this move, but I think it is good, heading for f4.
But he takes this way instead.
This is an excellent defensive move, trying to exchange my attacking pieces, but it is too late.
He takes back. He is lost!
This is a mistake, in a lost position.
I played this to win the queen.
This check drives the king onto the f file.
I felt uneasy about this move. someting didn't look right about it. sure the pawn is heavily guarded, but I don't know...
I forgot that this wouldn't work. Ironically, it does.
and this was the game ending mistake.
Black counters
Black takes.
Counter attack but with 2 pawns late, white has a bad game, not to speak of the 2 black bishops
Now white has little choice, for there is no  good place for the LSB. So that i initiate a trading sequence
At least the black king is weakened but white is still two points late in material.
Minority attack. If 27. ...  bxa4 28.Qxa4 and black has 2 isolated pawns
Black's attack is getting dangerous
Material equality. Black's c pawn is only two squares away from promotion but white has a frk attack between the 2 bishops
What is the point of playing this opening now?
But nope! Black is not interrested.
I guessed this move befor it even happened!
And so is black!
Black is a real fail
Nothing if it is black
White has inherrited black's genes I think!
?! The key move of the controversial Latvian Gambit. Very rarely seen at high levels, Black gives up a pawn (and usually much more) for a lead in space and development.
? This seems logical but I think it's actually too defensive-minded. It's intended to release Black's other Bishop, but I think advancing the d-pawn can wait while Black runs the White Knight out of town with 5...c5 6.Nb5 Qc6 7.Qh5+ Kd8. Now Black can play ...d5 and ...c4 at his leisure, driving the Knight almost off the board altogether while securing the whole center for himself and preventing White from developing either of his Bishops.
Black sacrifices another pawn in exchange for developing with tempo.
?! Black now dumps yet another pawn, as well as his queenside Rook. White has nothing developed but his Queen, but Black is running out of pieces altogether.
White gains some much-needed play for his own QB and QN. He has the makings of a dangerous attack against the Black queenside.
?! This sacrifice doesn't seem sound at all to me, but it slims down White's queenside pawns and gives Black a big lead in space, at the cost of half-opening the c-file for a White Rook.
Black now has plenty of space and uncontested control of the d-file.
? The WK skedaddles, which is pretty reasonable. However, this move allows the beautiful and deadly Black Queen to eliminate a critical White piece from the board. Black didn't have any immediate threats; simple queenside development with 15.Nc3 would have been a better choice.
This is a powerful, dangerous diagonal for White's QB to occupy. There are a lot of pieces pointed at the BK.
White completes his development and bears down on c7.
?! I'm not sure about this move. Black's pieces are somewhat disjointed, and cannot defend both the Rook and the f-pawn in one move, but by pulling his Bishop off the h2-b8 diagonal, White relieves some of the pressure on the BK.
0-1. White's position is completely hopeless, and he resigns. Thanks very much to speediecees for a great game, and thank you, dear reader, for stopping by to check out this annotation. Any comments on the analysis or the game itself are much appreciated, and if you leave a low rating, please let me know what I can do to improve! Thanks for reading!
English opening.
Good choice.
A team match, I'm playing white. I begin as always with the Open Game.
Black responds with the Sicilian Defense, Orthodox Variation, challenging white's control of d4. White responds with a bit of a waiting move, supporting the safe king's pawn and taking control of d4, giving black his choice of Sicilian lines.
Now we're out of the DB and out of my book as well. This move makes a direct attack against the black pawn on d6, a pawn that is a little problematic for black to defend.
First we clear a bunch of garbage out of the way and at the same time opening the a-file. Now we bring in the bishop. White will have 3-4 pieces on the attack in the next couple moves while black will have only 0-1 pieces on defense. Something's gotta give.
And now the nail in black's coffin. With his queen too far away to come rescue the king, black has no solution here. Not 29. Rhc8 Qa7#. Black might try 29. ... Ra8 30. Rxa8 Kxa8 31. Bxc6+ Kb8 32. Qb6+ Kc8 33. Qc7+ Kd8 34. Qd7#. Everything else loses faster, so black resigned.
I'll have my exchange at last
Philidor's defense
An inferior reply correct is <n>3. ... Nf6 or <n>3. .... Nd7 or<n>3. .... ed<n>(According to the book)
Black hopes for an exchange of queens and also unpins it's horse
Hi everyone!  My first post-Xmas annotation and what a way to start with a win!  I am playing in a mini-tournament with people in my own rating bracket which is a real test of whether that 1700  rating belongs to me or not.  Actually I have got off to a reasonable start, winning 2 games and drawing one.  Those wins pushed my rating above the 1750 mark for the first time in my chess career.  Here is the latter of the two.
7. d4 - a necessary pawn break in this opening.
37. Nd6?? - let me tell you something!  If you are a pawn down in an endgame and you VOLUNTARILY exchange down into a pure K & P endgame, let me tell you three things, it is SUICIDE, SUICIDE, SUICIDE!  This proves to be so because you are many times more likely to fall into a zugzwang (your turn to move but whatever move you play worsens your position i.e. losing material or allowing your opponent to checkmate you) than if you have another piece on the board.  Now here is how, you, with the material advantage, can exploit such play.
My favorite opening. The Scottish defence!
A mistake! You'll see how to win by this move.
A surprising move, but very good and effective.
And a total loss for black.Thanks you for watching this game.
Main line of the sicilian Pelikan variation
Black has no winning chances, down a piece and soon to be two pawns. he resigns.
Good diag for the black lsb, but...
I could have played Qb4 instead. But this threat is also good.
No point in exchanging queens. I'm not sure this is the best square for it.
He resigned here: Kd7, Qd8+, Kc6, Rc3+ wins the queen and the game.
He lines a two-pronged attack on my f-pawn...
...which leaves my opponent with no choice but to take my rook...
...for his queen.
...so my pawn removes his and has a clear run. This game was littered with so many mistakes, especially schoolboy errors, and I was extremely fortunate to emerge victorious.
I felt like playing the Berlin Defense, and see what happened.
Start of the blitzkrieg that would give Black a decisive advantage. best move for white is now Kf1. This would limit the damage, and gain time to defend.
an attempt to break open the shelter (17. ... a4 18. bxa4? bxa4 19. Re1 Qb5 ! 20. Kc1 a3. though white can escape by 21. Nxa3 Rxa3 22. Qc2	Rf-a8  23. d3	Rxa2       24.	Rxa2	Rxa225.	Qb1	Qxb1 26.  Kxb1	and  black has the advantage, but the attack has ran out of steam, but has an extra piece.  Best move now is 17. b4, which seals the position right up, and allows white to escape.
Bilek has a slight advantage in development, with 1 Q-side piece out already.
Malich's pieces are in retreat. Bilek has a growing spatial advantage.
Bilek is slowly tightening his grip on the position.
Bilek prepares for the final breakthrough.
Team Match, I'm playing black. White opened with his Queen's pawn, so I reply Indian.
White took an interesting turn developing his knight to c3 before playing his pawn to c4. Black's reply moves us to a sort of Queen's Pawn Opening, though most of those opening lines usually recommend c4 before Nc3.
All right, if the queen's gambit is good for white, maybe it's good for black.
I am at a loss for finding this opening anywhere. I'm down to Queen's Pawn Game or Closed Game being my best options. So from here, I'm just winging it. White bumped his queen up to d2, let's make her move twice and commit herself to the center where I can pick on her a little.
I pounce on that knight before white sees the opportunity I mentioned in my last note. Get it now while the getting is good.
A little exchange sequence that wins a pawn for black. It also leaves an isolated white pawn on d3.
It's worth noting here that this is all of this opening that I know. Alekhine's, if memory serves. The book no doubt would get me to a better position than the fumbling I do as white now for several moves.
Black is looking mighty good in this position. Great queen side pressure, and a safe King... while I am more cramped than it appears, and suddenly doing nothing at all. After thinking about it, I decide to offer up my rook...
Looks very bad for white now. Of course I should avoid trading pieces. One thing of note, however, is the loss of the exchange is not hurting yet. The black bishop was a great defender and attacker, and now it's gone, while the black rooks are not yet busy. What to do now...
Well this I did without thinking. I don't know if there was anything better, to be honest. White just doesn't have an attack that can break through easily with black controlling the a1-h8 diagonal. The white rook needs to be part of this, and it will take too long... shouldn't it?? To reply to the comment, you're right it's not enough, because now the pressure on black's king has weakened to the point that it appears white's attack fizzles and black simply can begin munching pawns or working up his own attack. Accurate play by black is simply a won game. That's the problem with Blitz play, isn't it. ;)
Necessary for any hope of activating the rook, and black still doesn't see Ra1. I really should have resigned long ago, but I wanted to see what would happen.
At this point he had left the game. But playing a bit futher we find...
Qd4 is better, because it puts pressure on f2 and protects the d pawn later on. Not sure if Qb2 was an option to keep pressure on f2 and attack b3. Still think Qd4 looked better. But I put it here where the queen is not doing anything useful for black, and did not feel like redoing this annotation to show the better position. It's late, and I'm tired. EDIT: And now if I fix the annotation, comments at the end would be lost. Qd4 or Qb2 is much better for black, and the endgame uncertain. But I'll leave this as it is now, so no comments are lost.
This is a game that shows how minor errors in the opening can cost a great deal later on.  It ends on a fairly major blunder, but that isn't the goal of this annotation.
And we are in the main line of the Queen's Indian, ...
Though not played at the highest levels, this move is acceptable as long as it played correctly
7...d5 also means that White is able to centralize his Knight, while Black has no easy means of dislodging him.
White seizes the tempo, and predicting 13...a4, White sets up a mate threat after 14. Bc2.<n><n>Also, look at the difference in development.  White has castled safely, connected his rooks, and is already forming mate threats.  Conversely, Black has 3 pieces on their home squares and has made 5 pawn moves in the first 12 moves of the game.  You tell me who you think is winning...
If Nxe2 Qxe2, his attack has lost it's bite.
Preparing Qd6 for an attack on h2?  Probably actually preparing what happened in the game.
This is the move in which I do not understand Black's intentions. I would appreciate your comments if you have any ideas.
The attack on the black king has begun.
Black has acquired control of the g file and turned the attack around.
I don't understand this move.
White has won a exchange but black has four pawns to two. Two of these pawns are on the sixth rank.
Black emerges witha extra pawn.
Rxa2 was the move when the game ends in a rook endgame with an extra pawn to black.  This simply loses.
I begin with my favourite opening, the queen's gambit.
Controlling the diagonal with my queen a bishop became the theme for the rest of the game. It made it dangerous for my opponent to castle on the king side but Bf7 would prevent him from castling at all.
my first annoted game. this game will remind you that you have to keep focus on every move. sometimes the 3 days per move can put you off guard, turning nice game into a terrible one. and visa versa. but, even when you seems lost, FOCUS. there's a chance that your opponents don't.
i'm not sure what this is for
i missed this one, but defence is still strong, and no attack yet from the opponents pieces.
obvious trade off. getting rid of an attacker. but oppening up opportunities for white to attack, as the bishops are now on their position to attack king side.
that's a bad choice by black, i think, destroying it's own pawn structure, which is crucial for defense. and further more, while two bishops are snipping in that direction.
another pawn is down. my chances are just with the g and h pawn. however it's harder as the black king is in a good position to prevent white king defending it's pawns.
Given the chance, White takes advantage of it.
Perhaps the purpose of this move was to prevent Nh5. Ironically, White plays Nh5 later in the game anyways.
His developming is very very good!
I try to exchange pieces, but I'm starting understand it's gonna be a draw...
Now he offers draw and i accepted. I hate offering draws, but in this game I didn't see something bad we've done. I mean no one was winning and no one was losing. What are your opinions? Were there a solution I didn't see (in the middle game I mean). Thanks for reading, bye!!
Oh, loosing a pawn is not good, So i have a solution, Let's see
Switching Knights !!!, it is the best for me ...
Black counters Greco's center thrusts with a Q-side fianchetto.
...and remove it...
...and so I retreat it.
...so I attack it...
...and decide that with a two pawn advantage, with the extra two pawns on the kingside being passed, it's worth removing the knight...
...and my king gets into the position for my queen to trap my opponent's king. If he hadn't resigned, he would have gone 59... Kb1, and I would have gone 60. Qb2#.
....white is lost completely with the skewer Bc3, white can resign.
This was a themed mini tournament about a very sharp line of the queen's gambit.
Discovers a defense
He takes the open file
I trade, I am behind but I don't think it's enough to be too worried about.
But he defends it
Maybe if he isn't paying attention he'll move his rook of the b file?
Hm, interesting, allows me a passed pawn in exchange for two.
I blockade his pawn and threaten it.
I lost, but I felt I played pretty well good game to my opponent.
The Queen's Gambit typical position. This is one of the oldest openings in chess where white have a good chance of taking control in the center. It's very important for white to capture the d5 pawn which give white control over the centre
I'm not so experienced whit the Marshall Defense, but black lets me take the d5 pawn. The Queen's Gambit Declined usually features 2... e6 defending the d4 pawn.
I'm not sure what the purpose of this move was. Maybe to secure the d5 square ? But I think it would be better for him to get the knight out or play with the queen side pieces.
I decided that it was time to attack the king side and make a sacrifice since black hasn't developed his queen side pieces and has left the king side ill defended.
Here he resigned because if Ke7 then 19.Qxg7#.So white mated black only in 19 moves. Notice that black hasn't moved the queen and the other pieces on the queen side The thing I learned : always look for opportunities to attack the king side and develop the pieces equally.<n>Hope you enjoyed the annotation :)
The first thing in the opening is to develop your pieces...<n>White have 3 developed and Black - only the Knight on b4
Black is behind in development. It is not a time to catch a queen
Hi everyone!<n><n>It has been quite a while since my last annotation but I have found time to annotate this game.  It was a Modern Benoni MT and in the middle game, Bwaa, who will be referred to as Bwaa because he has the same Christian name as my king, lost a pawn.  It was not very easy to make headway but, there was a sudden twist at the end.  We got into an endgame in jig time but there were enough pieces left on the board for Old Matey, the Chessic Grim Reaper to have a say in the matter.  Bwaa had put up his vacation flag to say that he had gone away for a long weekend and his queen travelled with him in his suitcase!  When they returned to the battlefield they were in for a shock for they discovered a very unwelcome intruder indeed.  I think I had better let you guys read on to find out who the intruder was and what happened next.  I will start the game after 5. ..... d6 which is the end of the themed moves.
8. ...... Nfd7 - this seems a strange move as it moves an already developed piece into a blocking position.  Here it not only blocks a check but it also blocks in Fou Leblanc.  However, it is one of the most recommended moves in the World DB so there is some deeper reason behind this.  Aha, it does open up the possibility of a queen check on h4 and the long diagonal for Fou Lenoir which may come in useful later on.
15. ....... Nxb6 - so a pawn trade has taken place.  My a pawn is isolated but then so is bwaa's b2 pawn.
37. ....... Qxc5?? - yup, I expect you are wondering - why two question marks for this move.  It defends his knight on c2, his pawn on d5, but, alas for bwaa, the Wicked Witch of the West has gone away on vacation with bwaa on her broomstick.  Now, on their return they are about to confront that unwelcome intruder who is ...........
41. ..... Qd1+ - wait for it .......
In this game I'm playing black against an opponent whose Elo rating is 200 points higher than myself so I play the move the I'm most familiar with, e5.
Giucco Piano - also called the Italian game.
?! This move surprised me. I'm not sure what my opponent was trying to do here. Maybe attack my queen-side? I was also not sure how to take advantage of the move....
So I kept developing while attacking his pieces.
This game was over very quickly.  I underestimated the danger to my uncastled king when I tried attacking too soon.  My 11 yr old opponent quickly showed me the error of my ways.
At the time, I felt that this was an over-cautious response from White.  It gives Black time to catch up a little on development.  In retrospect it was a good move as it inhibited Black's scope for counter-attack.
I have had some nasty experiences castling on either side in this sort of position.  However, I think I should have castled before playing this thrust as I soon fall prey to a devastating exploitation of my weak kingside.
I was rather pleased with this establishment of the e4 outpost for my B but I'd overlooked something ...
it is normal
i played this opening about 40 times
a simple trade
it is pinned
i know this trick... ...
protecting and development
... ... this
thank you for watching my annotation and please rate for than good and leave comments for annotations of what rating against what rating of me!!!<n>thanks for watching!!<n>see toy guys next time!
This is the first time I have had someone play a London-type system against my opening.
Planting the Ne5 is a good step.
This stops the checkmate, but it loses significant material.
This Game Began in A Very Odd Fashion.
No Spotted development.Only pawn moves.But Black HAS THE PAWN CENTER.
Finally A Piece Is In The Game.
Black Has Regained The Material. Also White Hardly has Any Development.
Queen trade accepted, and I gain control of the d file.
White has a won game and black resigns
In this game we shall observe why there has never been a Klingon Alpha Quadrant Chess Champion. <n><n>Chess is a game of patience as well as bravery. There is a time for the bold, sacrificial attack -- but rage, frustration and masochistic initation rituals have no place in the Game of Kings.   <n><n>In other words, Klingons suck at chess.
A Modern/Robatsch Defense.
The text is a solid, classical approach to the position. <n><n>But also possible is 4. Be3, followed usually by Qd2 (we will see this set up later). 4. f4 is also available creating a big pawn centre behind which to prepare for e5 -- but such a strategy also gives Black an easy target and just begs for over-extension.
8. ..... Kc6 - see intro note.
9. ......... e5 - my opponent likes my move (I have played this twice as black and won one game with it) so he plays it!
14. d4 - a good time to play this line opener, especially with the absence of the e pawns!
17. dxd5+ - he trades off his dsb however and gives me a central and well supported passer - it is also check.  This passer is gonna be a killer.
So far so good for the musician. Both men still have to develop their Q-side pieces before the middle-game proper can begin.
Sting's development is complete. He has a slight advantage in space and time.
Kasparov has caught up in development and neutralized the musician's former advantage in space. The position is roughly even.
Down in material, Sting wisely refuses the exchange of Bishops.
With the Queens gone, the position assumes an endgame-like character. Kasparov's extra Pawn is a larger advantage with every exchange of pieces.
Locking the Q-side Pawns in place, but completely trapping his KB. This piece is now useless.
Sting is defending with pluck. However, Kasparov's extra Pawn and Sting's imprisoned B are huge handicaps.
The musician, effectively down 2 pieces, finally resigns. A hard-fought game.
After more slow maneuvering [typical of this variation] a pair of minors get swapped.
Another exchange. I don't mind in the least.
I don't intend to let Black enter.
I have to make sure Black doesn't get a passed P over here.
Black doesn't fall for t.
A tactical retreat.
Black chases my Q-side Pawns.
Withe the Black K cut off from the Q-side, the Rook is overburdened.
i don't usually see the symmetrical with the english
the black position seems inadequate, though it is hard to find a real and concrete weakness. i have considered on sacrificing on g5 sometime, but 1) i was lacking of material; 2) it could have opened my own king side; 3) I had a better plan on queen side
too late for the black attack
let's open all of this...
this is just too good to be true: the black queen is out and the bishops diagonals are opening everywhere
if bxa, then it is checkmate in very few moves. so, this was the only possible move. My knight has been brave and fell for the good of every one
this is it!
only move: Rxb7... So black resigned
Of course I have prepared for this tactical idea by black and played Qc2, Nb5 and Bd2 making the journey of the black c-pawn a dangerous one.
The idea of Bd2 was in anticipation of ...c4 now ...Nc5 is short lived. This sets up a critical moment for black. As I see it black has two moves
!? this is the main move and if black can play it he would dearly love to play it. But can he? You see, the other alternative that I am sure is a novelty is the exchange sacrifice 16. ...Nb6 supporting c4 and adding another attacker onto a4. Which in my mind would force me to play the unwanted 17. a5 Nbxd5!? 18. exd5 Qb7 19. Qa4 Rb8 looks decent for black. But as this game progress you be the judge on whether 16....Nc5 is playable.
now the critical black c-pawn finds itself under attack. Slow but surely black's pieces get deflected away from a4.
and it is over. Hope you enjoyed it.
choosing an attack on the king-side, which is not the main idea with this opening, as far as I know. Though, it is not incorrect.
white has eliminated an offensive black piece.
my turn...
this accelerates my combination!
Here's another mysterious resignation... I don't mind people resigning against me but it would help my sanity if I understood why!  This game is in a pretty serious mini-tournament in which I'm not doing very well, so this game was a nice bonus...
Is Black overstretching himself with this move?
Black makes room for his rook to attack on the g-file, I think.
ditto for Black
and Black resigned!  Why?
Najdorf Sicilian - though Black's game seems slow and White can usually gain an advantage in development and space, White will nevertheless be hard-pushed to find weaknesses in the Black position.
6...e6 can also be played here, and is more mainline [correct me if I'm wrong] than the move played. However, since this move develops a piece and prevents Nakamura from doubling pawns, it can hardly be faulted [though it does make it harder for Van Wely to get out his light-square bishop]
...but does it need to be protected? I have annotated another game with this variation [between chess computers Rybka and Shredder] only Black has his knight on b8 and his pawn on e6  [in other words, Black had played 6...e6 instead of 6...Nbd7] here's the link to that game, by the way... http://gameknot.com/annotation.pl/technological-brilliance?gm=32287
!? Nakamura has his reasons for this capture, but it still seems like a strange move to me at first. The capture was not forced by any means, and the bishop pair would be useful in this variation of the Sicilian [from what I can gather, the poisoned pawn variation is counting on White having superior spatial advantage for the lost pawn] However, the motif for this will be revealed...
watch how the knight pair gets to work to achieve the final position of this game :)
!! This shocking move end the game immediately - Black's queen is lost and Van Wely resigns. If 17...Nxb6, then White wins with 18.Nf6+, followed by 19.Qd8#. If 17...Qa4, then White earns a pretty mate with 18.Nc7#. A great example of the use of initiative and space... but where exactly did Van Wely go wrong? Was it the slight change in position from the Rybka-Shredder game that made the poisoned pawn on move 8 a highly toxic pawn? Or could Van Wely have gotten away with 16...Bxb7? Comments are very much appreciated on that matter. Until next time! - Alex
The second game between me and bowlem. I lost the first one and I tried to equalize with this game.
" The position is about to explode!" 20. ... fxg3!? 21.fxg3 Bd4  and White is lost, because 22.Kh1 is answered by h4! and 22.Kh2 gxh3  doesn't help anyway.
I recommend flipping the board before watching this game.  This is the second game in a series on the portuguese gambit, I hope you enjoy the game.
The scandinavian defense, a nice counterattacking way to meet 1.e4.  I normally play the sicilian, so while I play this (the scandinavian) occasionally my understanding of it is far from excellent.
2... Qxd5 is a perfectly reasonable alternative, but I hugely prefer this move, it prepares a bunch of gambits from the one in this game (the portuguese) to the icelandic with 2... Nf6 3.c4 e6.  Also it plans to retake on d5 with the knight instead of the queen.  There is a maxim about not bringing out your queen in the opening, this move follows that idea as 2... Qxd5 loses tempo to 3.Nc3.
This initiates the portuguese gambit, black develops with tempo.  If white blocks with a piece black will regain the pawn and have a slight development lead to counteract white's good center, an approximately equal (and usually dull) game.  If white wants to play ambitiously he's forced to play the following weakening move.
Black prepares to conclude development.  I think it's time to take a step back and give the position a look.  I have an obvious development advantage and a target in the IQP (isolated queen's pawn), as well as having instigated the weakening f3 from white.  I also have two open files in the a & b files.  White has an excellent bishop on a4 that pins down black's knight, and thus my queen (in order to defend the knight).  I need to use my advantage in time effectively, this means I should play pressuring moves, but it also means I should NOT trade.  I've spent a lot of time developing my pieces and if I trade one for a piece white has just developed it'll be a loss of time.  My plan is to castle quick and attack white's game.  His plan is to trade his undeveloped pieces for my strong ones.  However, he shouldn't trade his bishop for my knight on d7 yet as it pins me down.
I want to castle as quickly as I can.  We've gotten through most of the middle game and I'm STILL down a pawn.  So I think it's time for another look at the board.  I'm targeting the a pawn, and white is tied down to it.  He also has to worry about the weakness of the IQP.  An IQP is usually helpful if you can use it in an attack, but that's unlikely here so it's a target for me.  The pawn on f3 is still a problem for white as it opens an annoying diagonal against his king.  In an open game I also have the advantage of still having a bishop on an open board.  This is my compensation for being down a pawn, is it worth it?  I don't know.  I think it's interesting though, that I've had compensation for the pawn from move 3 until now.
White removes his rook from the attacked square and it pressures white's biggest advantage (the outside extra pawns) and biggest weakness (it's an isolated pawn on the line of my bishop).
But no.  There is a double attack on the knights and black wins.  While I can't claim that this game was the most accurate, it shows the way CONSTANT pressure and easy development comes in the portuguese gambit.  This isn't a crushing attack like game #1, in this game white doesn't grab material at every opportunity, the game shows another part of the opening, the constand build-up of threats that can last an entire game.  I hope you enjoyed the game, and please PM me with comments, criticisms and analysis.
(??) This REALLY is the decisive mistake, a move of roughly a third category player. Absolutely essential was 12.h3 Bxe2 13.Nxe2 cxd5 14.cxd5 Qxd5 15.0-0 with an extra pawn, for which Black has some compensation, but not more. Now, however, Black has an ENORMOUS lead in development and initiative along with an irresistible attack.
5. ........ a6 (according to the 1900s database this is the Kan Variation of the Sicilian.  The first few moves were just like my game with Marin, only my opponent deviated with 4. Nf6 instead of moving the black queen to b6.
16.  ......... Qb6 completely throws me - OMG he is threatening a double check on f3 winning my queen and my b pawn is en pris - wait a minute, wait a minute, I can deal with both threats by playing 17. Na4, this attacks the black queen and defends the white b pawn so that if my opponent plays the threatened discovery it will merely result in an exchange of queens)
25. ....... Nf5 (over the next few moves black consolidates his position and has two heavy pieces on the d file - I double up on the e pawn with Qe2.  Black defends with Qd2 and the queens are then exchanged.
30. ......... R x a2?? - no he can't and now he pays with his king.  My Christmas has come early! I play 31. Nf6  and my opponent resigned after I announced 32. Rxh7# next move (an Arabian Mate).  Beware of knights - they can catch you unawares and give you knightmares!!  In my opponent's case it was Arabian Knightmares!!  After the awful shock of my game with Bob I needed this shot in the arm like manna from heaven!!
exd4 means Qxd4, but this is not good either.
e5, NxR, exB, and I was lost.
Overlooking Rxa7. Anyway, I don't know if it is good.
It seems a defence, but it isn't - this is the nice part.
Two pawns up Q-side majority a computer assessment of -0.83(after the game) for black. I began to fancy my chances of a Walk the walk victory.
Contesting the c-file. Houdini2 gives the position as dead equal. It favoured 16.....Nb6 with -0-26 for black.
So I'm playing black here. I recently adopted the Slav defense to play against the popular queens gambit.
He could have temporarily saved his pawn on d5 by playing Bc4, but he tries to expose my king. However, he doesn't have any real capability to attack.
He correctly targets the open c file, however his king is far too vulnerable.
Hope you enjoyed this:)
Not great, this a trappy move where you hope he won't notice Nc6, I don't know what I was thinking with this.
White has a huge advantage, his queen is well centralized, he has a strong center and he is up a pawn.
I now have a won game.
Pawn trade, it does give him a passed pawn, but it gives him an isolated pawn and gets rid of one of my isolated pawns.
he takes tied game so far
? Loses a lot of pieces
Idk what this gains
i found this aggressive and strange move in the Database. As I'm experimenting, I'll try it.
Black wins another pawn but his king his naked and white has plenty of attacking possibilities (it seems to be the advantage of this gambit).
Black is in trouble and his d pawn is almost pinned.
Time to liquidate black's central heroïcal soldier.
"My king, we lost our archering company but our position still gives us an advantage"<n>" Carry on, brave soldiers but be carefull now."
Black has little other choice.
The black king will have to flee near the right edge where he'll be trapped.
No choice
Black has no choice.
Surprisingly, I can't find this natural move in any of the (limited) opening databases I use.
so white takes the rook.
But walks into a perpetual check. Draw agreed! Many thanks for reading, please rate this annotation on the star system, and leave a comment or two to let me know how I am doing with my annotations. Until next time dear reader!
Quite reasonable, d5 would have been another option, but developing pieces is a good idea.
A bit of an error, not massively so, but Q-d3 would have been better. It supports your hanging pawn on e4 and threatens the c5 pawn(check). A couple of things to always try and rem. Firstly in endgame a pawn advantage is massive, try not to let your opponent pick up free pawns, secondly you want to be dictating the tempo of the game. Force your opponent to respond to your moves rather than vica versa.
Its been said that chess is a game where the winner makes the second to last mistake. And here that happened to be me. I'm not overly a technical player and if you ask GK for a technical analysis they'll prob say half of the match was errors. From my point of view I see three mistakes. (1) yours, leaving a pawn open (2) mine, getting over ambitious and having to scurry back to defend (3) yours, taking the bishop when retreat was called for. But considering the difference in ratings (flawed as they are), you played fairly even with me throughout most of it and only a rather desperate pawn move to offer the bishop saved me.
Black has forgotten about the bxp
Hi everyone!<n><n>This is another game in my 1700-1800 mini-tournament group.  Just imagine, you are a pawn up, you are in a 2 piece ending, surely the game is in the bag.  But not always, sometimes the pawn structures can be as such that a gridlock ensues.  It did in this game.  I had the pawn plus but could not seem to be able to do anything with it so I held out the olive branch and my opponent accepted it.  Please bear in mind that epblue's rating was not 1584 at the start, it was 1755 so I only lost 0.4 points out of the low draw.  He kicks off with 1.e4.
22. ...... Qd6 - but I anticipated exchanges of heavies on the e file however.
31. ....... Nxe7 - and now the queens.  You would think this endgame a gimmie for black wouldn't you?
black queen is not protected
takes queen
both without most powerful  piece of the game
all minor pieces out
I am keeping this game close even so it was  with a player with a higher rating
takes  pawn
takes pawn
takes rook
i lost
...this is an annoying move for white and he has to deal with it, otherwise black automatically takes on f3 to upset the pawns and give some early targets..
...want the swap but not this time...but it prepares f5 if it is not taken....
....white has a static queen side and black has 5 pieces that can come quickly to the kingside quickly....decided to tak advantage of the pin next...Qxd3 is on, and overlooked it for (what i thought) was a more aggressive plot...myself and the buddy are playing these games relatively quickly so no major analysis done...
This serious positional mistake has a clear historical background. The 50-year-old Capablanca in his long chess career never dealt with hidden dynamic factors. His unique intuition and rich experience didn't send any danger signals here. Instead he counted on using his opponent's light squares with the long manoeuvre Na6-b8-c6-a5-b3. Capablanca simply underestimated the explosive power of White's position.
Both sides are quite persistent. The a4-pawn is lost, but the long-awaited central advance is also ready.
This miserable pawn has played an important role as bait for the tiger!
Forcing the opening of the e-file and an exchange of rooks.
Using a tactical trick to protect the knight on f6: 26.fxg6... (variation). Capablanca was reducing White's attacking potential, however, from now on he had no choice but to join the club of chess masterpieces. Unfortunately he was sitting on the wrong side of the board! In case of [25...Rf8 26. Qf4 White's attack is also unstoppable, e.g. Qa2 27.fxg6! Qxb2 ( 27...hxg6 28.Qg5) 28.g7! Kxg7 29.Nf5+ Kh8 30.Qd6 Rf7 ( 30...Kg8 31. Qg3+) 31.Qxf6+ mating.]
f passed-pawn.
Already I was uncomfortable at his response, i'm still learning this opening and i have never seen this response before, i'm sure my discomfort will pass, it's all part of the learning curve when using a new opening.
developing my pieces getting them ready to see active duty.
This bishop will play an important role of omission later in the game. On one level it is comedy but to the white king it will be a tragedy.
black of course pursues his own plans of developing his pieces.
Classic `nimso-larsen`stuff, I attack his center from the flank, notice how my b pawn backs up this attack on black's center.
an important development, he gives up a center pawn while I hang on to my own, this will help give me a more attractive pawn structure going into the middle game, notice too how i have not committed either of my center pawns to the center yet, they stand ready to advance later in the middle game, i like the idea of holding my center pawns back initially, all part and parcel of hypermodern strategy.
i continue to develop my pieces with the idea of piece activity in coordination with my pawn structure, a good opening will help guide you through the pitfalls of having your pawns get in the way of your own pieces.
he in turn takes my bishop out of the game.
i attack his rook forcing him to move it while at the same time advancing another pawn up the center of the board.
attacking and pinning his b pawn, notice the mobility of my pieces and how they fit in with my pawn structure, this is a theme i plan on focusing on from this game on...the nimzo-larsen opening had done it's job and left me with a good pawn skeleton for the middle game wars.
i moved fast, angry with myself for losing the exchange and bungling a perfectly good position...there is an important lesson here, if you make a bad move, logoff and get away from the game for awhile and get back to it later when your head has cleared and you're not as emotional....but you know what they say about advice, easy to give, hard to take.
the rest of it is him closing me down.
i resigned and learned another chess lesson, if i am to improve my game i will probably have to make changes away from the chessboard and do something about my `easily frustrated and impatient nature`...but this is part of the beauty of chess, it will reflect your character flaws and shine a light on them. it is up to me to do something about that....Boris Spassky once said that 'Chess is a metaphor for Life'...I think it is. A chess game will have drama, intrigue, tragedy, comedy. Think of it as a theatre of the mind where we play major roles in shaping our destiny.  It is life contained on a 64 square field and we are the Kings.
Alekhine's Defense.
The Ljubojevic Variation of the Alekhine. Black is very comfortable in this position, and threatens to start ripping up the center.
Advancing, attacking, and opening the diagonal for his light squared bishop.
And now for a quick evaluation.........black is up almost a full rook, but is underdeveloped. He should start getting his pieces moving quickly to maintain his material advantage. White is down almost a full rook, but his pieces are developed and he has momentum. Time for white to start pressing his initiative!
Fritz gives black the edge in this position.
Black is now down severely on material and tempo. His saving grace is that white is EXTREMELY short on his clock (I couldn't find out how short, but reportedly the next 10 moves by Bronstein were played VERY rapidly).
Black pins all of his hopes on rushing a pawn towards promotion.
DOUBLE YIKES!!!!!!!!! Has white blundered his queen?
Correct idea. White knows he is on cruise control, and should win. Removing ANY chance of a black pawn push while still safe from receiving a check is just good, solid, patient chess.
And Ljubojevic resigns, as his g pawn will never reach it's goal because of white's pawn on h2. His a pawn is worthless as well. In a game of queen vs. rook, he may have some play, but now because white's f pawn has entered the picture, he knows he can't defend on that many fronts. A wonderful game, and a beautiful example of the concept of TIME being used in a mating attack. I hope you enjoyed it:) - Thomas
An agressive beginning for white which has the drawback of considerably weaken the white king.
Standard move for black in this position.
Black has little other choice.
Last try for black
Sicilian defence I like this opening
I don't know why my opponent didn't castle.
This move.
I could exchange Q in this move and do this move one move later, but I didn't, because my opponent was making mistakes in this game, and I was hoping for another one :). 14. Qxd2 Qxd2.
Opening the way for my black Bishop, and closing down the opponent white Bishop.
And game is over.
This is the starting position of the KID:4PA. White has taken advantage of Black's hypermodern play - Black has not yet committed to a central formation - and grabbed a large share of the centre, in exchange for a very slight advantage in development for Black. Black will try to work against White's central control in the sharp variations that can ensue from this position. I personally am hoping to play above my rating in this tournament, since I have done quite a lot of preparation on the 4PA! I am also hoping to gain valuable experience of this sharp opening in this tournament.
The main line of the 4PA. Another note-worthy option for Black is 7...b5, sacrificing a pawn for Volga Gambit-style queenside counterplay against White's strong centre. After 8.cxb5 a6 9.a4 I feel perfectly happy with White's position, although this would bypass all my preparation work.
Again, White must keep his centre together, and therefore usually recaptures with the c-pawn. The one drawback of this main line is that it gives Black a queenside pawn majority: in most following variations, Black aims to make the queenside the theatre of battle.
Black wins one of White's central pawns, however White has compensation in the form of his mobile, passed d-pawn, and the bishop which he is about to lodge in Black's position, like a thorn in his side.
Black's position is now extremely cramped because of White's powerful d6-pawn and his two minor pieces on the 7th rank. He has also lost at least an exchange, although I was (greedily?) hoping to win more than that.
Black's king is immobile, and the game will conclude 24...Be6 25.Bxe6 Rxe6 26.Qf8#, or 24...Re6 25.Qf8#. Black resigned.
During the game I thought for sure this move would give me his bishop, but I didn't see the escape at 21. be3
This is game 6 of the match where a computer, Deep Blue, defeated a reigning chess grandmaster, Garry Kasparov in only 19 moves.<n><n>Most commentary is by Yasser Seirawan.  ((Comments from Wikipedia entry on this game are in double parentheses.))<n><n>The Garry Kasparov versus Deep Blue match had all the drama of a great epic. Going into the last game with the match tied the expectation and excitement had reached fever pitch. My audience had just begun to warm their seats when the game was over! In just over one hour the match was over and we were all left gasping for answers. I hope these comments provide some crucial clues to the most gripping chess event that I've ever had the pleasure to be involved with.<n><n>Garry's opening choice came as a great disappointment to me. He rarely plays the Caro-Kann and the opening does not suit his style of play. I had expected and hoped for his vaunted Sicilian Defense (1...c5) which he plays supremely well.
(( Somewhat atypically, Kasparov plays the solid Caro-Kann Defense. In later matches against computers he opted for 1...e5 or 1...c5, the sharp Sicilian Defence, Kasparov's usual choice against human opponents. ))
((This relatively recent innovation breaks one of the classic opening principles ("don't move the same piece twice in the opening"), but puts pressure on the weak f7 square. Kasparov had played this move himself as White at least three times earlier.))
All of the previous moves are "standard opening theory" played in thousands of games before. Kasparov's next move came as a great surprise.
This sacrifice is the only chance for White to gain an advantage. After 8.Ne4 Nxe4 9.Bxe4 Nf6 10.Bd3 c5 is fine for Black since he hasn't yet moved his f8-Bishop the freeing break ...c6-c5 and the subsequent move ...Bf8-c5 doesn't come with the loss of a tempo. Therefore the text. However, the effect of White's move had a devastating effect on Garry's face. He looked as if he had just been hit by a bolt of lightening. While we were busily speculating if Kasparov had come prepared with a novel idea his reaction was manifestly clear, he had<n>transposed his move order and fallen into a well known book trap! How on earth was this possible? Garry Kasparov is arguably the finest opening theoretician in the world today. How could he fall into a known opening trap? There are several answers. In the post match press conference, Garry explained that he had lost his confidence. Following the disappointing draw in game five he had told his trainers that, "The match was over." Garry had simply given up and went into the game with a losing mentality.<n>Too, Garry had exhibited signs of increasing nervousness and tension following game two. Playing openings and defenses that were unfamiliar to him he had hoped to out fox the computer. He had done so, but, also achieved positions that didn't suit him.<n>Following the look of appall on his face following the text Garry clinched his head in his hands looked plainly disgusted and banged down his next move swiftly.<n><n>(( The computer is aided by having this knight sacrifice programmed into the
? There are several answers. In the post match press conference, Garry explained that he had lost his confidence. Following the disappointing draw in game five he had told his trainers that, "The match was over." Garry had simply given up and went into the game with a losing mentality.<n>Too, Garry had exhibited signs of increasing nervousness and tension following game two. Playing openings and defenses that were unfamiliar to him he had hoped to out fox the computer. He had done so, but, also achieved positions that didn't suit him.<n>Following the look of appall on his face following the text Garry clinched his head in his hands looked plainly disgusted and banged down his next move swiftly.<n><n>(( The computer is aided by having this knight sacrifice programmed into the opening book. This move had been played in a number of previous high-level games, with White achieving a huge plus score. However, had Deep Blue been on its own, it would probably not have played this. The compensation White gets for the material is not obvious enough for the computer to see by itself. As an indication of how far computer chess has progressed in recent years, modern chess programs running on ordinary desktop computers do find Ng5xe6 without their opening books. ))
opening book. This move had been played in a number of previous high-level games, with White achieving a huge plus score. However, had Deep Blue been on its own, it would probably not have played this. The compensation White gets for the material is not obvious enough for the computer to see by itself. As an indication of how far computer chess has progressed in recent years, modern chess programs running on ordinary desktop computers do find Ng5xe6 without their opening books. ))
This however is a known mistake. When it rains it pours and mistakes usually come in numbers. For Caro-Kann players like myself, we are aware that 8...fxe6 9.Bg6+ Ke7 10.O-O Qc7 11. Re1 Kd8 preparing ...Bf8-d6 is the only way to go. This variation is not to everyone's taste as Black's King and his lack of development promise a difficult future. However, if Black can solve his current problems he has an extra piece to give him hopes. In the many games that feature the text, White has won all of those in my database! The problem as we shall see is that Black's Queen is terribly misplaced.<n><n>(( Instead of taking the knight immediately, Kasparov pins the knight to the king in order to give his king a square on d8. However, many annotators have criticized this move and said that Kasparov ought to have taken the knight immediately. Although the Black king uses two moves to reach d8 after 8...fxe6 9.Bg6+ Ke7, the Black queen can be placed at the superior c7 square. ))
The most incisive. The Bishop is on a superb diagonal covering key squares which control the movements of both Black's King and Queen. Other known moves include 11.c4 when Black has also been swept off the board.<n><n>(( If Black's bishop were on d6 instead of f8, White would not be able to play this. For the sacrificed knight, White's bishops have a stranglehold on Black's position. Black, having moved his king, can no longer castle, his queen is blocking his own bishop, and he has trouble getting out his pieces and making use of his extra knight. ))
Unfortunately for the commentators we were trying to justify Kasparov's opening choice and explained that the novel move 11...b5 was prepared by Garry and that all of his head shaking was his attempt for an Oscar for best drama. Previous games have seen 11...Qb4 trying to make room for his pieces. But these games also have resulted in Black losses.<n>The purpose of the text is to secure the d5-square for a Black Knight when it can't be dislodged by c2-c4. A noble aim except that it simply does not work. There is no question that Black faces difficulties but the computer's approach to winning the game is quite different from a human's. Essentially the computer looks at each position as if it were unique. It doesn't have prejudices about previous ideas but tries to play the best move according to its evaluation and its thinking.<n>Take another look at the position before the text move. In general, it is good to win a Queen for Rook and Bishop. A computer is correctly programmed to think that winning a Queen for Rook and Bishop is a good thing. White can play Rf1-e1 and Bg6-f5 in order to win the e7-Queen. Also the computer likes to win pawns and could play for Rf1-e1 and Qd1-e2xe6 when in both cases Black is relieved by the trades. If White is given the opportunity to carry out either of these operations it is definitely in Black's interests to let him!<n><n>With the text, Kasparov weakens his entire Queenside structure and allows White to develop his a1-Rook. What were his choices? Well, 11...Nd5 12.Bg3 Qf6 13.Bh4 definitely fails. And<n>no one wants to play Black after 11...Nd5 12.Bg3 N7f6
another look at the position before the text move. In general, it is good to win a Queen for Rook and Bishop. A computer is correctly programmed to think that winning a Queen for Rook and Bishop is a good thing. White can play Rf1-e1 and Bg6-f5 in order to win the e7-Queen. Also the computer likes to win pawns and could play for Rf1-e1 and Qd1-e2xe6 when in both cases Black is relieved by the trades. If White is given the opportunity to carry out either of these operations it is definitely in Black's interests to let him!<n><n>With the text, Kasparov weakens his entire Queenside structure and allows White to develop his a1-Rook. What were his choices? Well, 11...Nd5 12.Bg3 Qf6 13.Bh4 definitely fails. And<n>no one wants to play Black after 11...Nd5 12.Bg3 N7f6 13.Ne5 when White has too many threats. In the past 11...Qb4 hasn't worked so another strategy has to be found. An anti-computer strategy. Kasparov facing a difficult position has to let the computer bail him out!<n>My suggestion is to do little! Black should draft his Queenside into the game while trying to induce Deep Blue to win material. Of course I can't guarantee such a strategy would work! This then is my suggestion: 11...a5!! (Two exclaims for understanding the opponent is a computer.) 12.Re1 (12.a4!? b6 13.c4 Ba6 14.Rc1 Kc8 is Black's basic idea given the chance he wants to play ...Kc8-b7 and try to hold on.) 12...a4 13.Qe2 b5 14.Qxe6?! Qxe6 15.Rxe6 Nb6
13.Ne5 when White has too many threats. In the past 11...Qb4 hasn't worked so another strategy has to be found. An anti-computer strategy. Kasparov facing a difficult position has to let the computer bail him out!<n>My suggestion is to do little! Black should draft his Queenside into the game while trying to induce Deep Blue to win material. Of course I can't guarantee such a strategy would work! This then is my suggestion: 11...a5!! (Two exclaims for understanding the opponent is a computer.) 12.Re1 (12.a4!? b6 13.c4 Ba6 14.Rc1 Kc8 is Black's basic idea given the chance he wants to play ...Kc8-b7 and try to hold on.) 12...a4 13.Qe2 b5 14.Qxe6?! Qxe6 15.Rxe6 Nb6 16.Rxc6 Nbd5 intending ...Bc8-d7 when we see Black's idea in full bloom. If in the above line we see the following: 11...a5 12.Re1 a4 13.Bf5 (as in the game) 13…exf5 14.Rxe7 Bxe7 Black is in great shape. He is about to coordinate his pieces and he has a material advantage. These lines demonstrate how Deep Blue could easily go wrong.<n>Its highest priorities are to win material. In both cases Deep Blue is doing what it is told (Don't forget, it was told to sacrifice a Knight!) and winning material. If the result is that Deep Blue gets a bad game that is just the way it goes. The real bad news about the text is that it tells Deep Blue exactly what to do, open up the queenside.
16.Rxc6 Nbd5 intending ...Bc8-d7 when we see Black's idea in full bloom. If in the above line we see the following: 11...a5 12.Re1 a4 13.Bf5 (as in the game) 13…exf5 14.Rxe7 Bxe7 Black is in great shape. He is about to coordinate his pieces and he has a material advantage. These lines demonstrate how Deep Blue could easily go wrong.<n>Its highest priorities are to win material. In both cases Deep Blue is doing what it is told (Don't forget, it was told to sacrifice a Knight!) and winning material. If the result is that Deep Blue gets a bad game that is just the way it goes. The real bad news about the text is that it tells Deep Blue exactly what to do, open up the queenside.
Doing what computers do best, calculate tactics. As 19...bxc4 20.Qxc4 Kb7 21.Qa6 is Checkmate, Kasparov was forced to realize that his whole plan of controlling the d5-square<n>simply fails. His alternative19...Nb4 20.Qxf5 Rf8 21.Qe6 bxc4 22.Ne5 is also good for<n>White. Still, Kasparov's resignation was premature to say the least. I had expected Kasparov to dig in his heels and fight. But he had no fighting spirit and simply gave up. Following his resignation there was a sudden and complete emptiness in the spirit of the people in the auditorium. All the buildup up in tensions had been sucked out as if in a vacuum. We were all in disbelief and shock. IBM had done it. They had created a computer program that defeated the world's highest rated human. It was a watershed event and an extraordinary moment in time. Kasparov seemed utterly dazed.<n><n>Press Conference:<n>Garry appeared in the press center shortly after the last game had finished so disastrously for him. He took his seat next to IBM team leader C.J. Tan and looked grimly up into the air till it was his time to speak. Monty Newborn tried to introduce Kasparov's team but Garry stopped him: "My team doesn't need to be recognized. Deep Blue's team does." C.J. Tan thanked Garry, "A brave man to participate in this great experiment." C.J. Tan continu
ock. IBM had done it. They had created a computer program that defeated the world's highest rated human. It was a watershed event and an extraordinary moment in time. Kasparov seemed utterly dazed.<n><n>Press Conference:<n>Garry appeared in the press center shortly after the last game had finished so disastrously for him. He took his seat next to IBM team leader C.J. Tan and looked grimly up into the air till it was his time to speak. Monty Newborn tried to introduce Kasparov's team but Garry stopped him: "My team doesn't need to be recognized. Deep Blue's team does." C.J. Tan thanked Garry, "A brave man to participate in this great experiment." C.J. Tan continued, The computer played grandmasterly chess. Where do go from here? We will continue to work with Garry but perhaps on a less competitive level." Garry's response: "The competition has just started." Garry started off with: "I have to apologize for the performance today. The match was lost by the World Champion with very good reason." Garry elaborated on the loss of the match, that game two had been crucial. "It was beyond my understanding the moves Deep Blue played. It plays a move like Be4 but misses Qb6. All the print-outs of game 1 - 6 should be published. I have no idea what was happening behind the curtains. I'm ashamed I lost this match, since the machine had too many weaknesses. I want to understand how Deep Blue won the match. I want to look at the print-outs. The computer still has gener
ed, The computer played grandmasterly chess. Where do go from here? We will continue to work with Garry but perhaps on a less competitive level." Garry's response: "The competition has just started." Garry started off with: "I have to apologize for the performance today. The match was lost by the World Champion with very good reason." Garry elaborated on the loss of the match, that game two had been crucial. "It was beyond my understanding the moves Deep Blue played. It plays a move like Be4 but misses Qb6. All the print-outs of game 1 - 6 should be published. I have no idea what was happening behind the curtains. I'm ashamed I lost this match, since the machine had too many weaknesses. I want to understand how Deep Blue won the match. I want to look at the print-outs. The computer still has generic problems and the way to prove that this was not a single event - that the computer has a great mind, is for Deep Blue to enter competitive chess. Make IBM a player not a sponsor."<n>Garry was asked if he was suggesting that IBM had been cheating on him. He replied: "I'm suggesting, many things happened well beyond my understanding and it should be tested on other machines to see if they show up with the same kind of answers." Garry about game 6: "The best player in the world cracked down under pressure. After the computer takes on e6 (8.Nxe6), I can resign. I didn't feel like playing. I'm human. What happened in the previous games was beyond my understanding and I was scared." Garry won't mind to play another match against Deep Blue but one of the conditions he already stated is: "Only
ic problems and the way to prove that this was not a single event - that the computer has a great mind, is for Deep Blue to enter competitive chess. Make IBM a player not a sponsor."<n>Garry was asked if he was suggesting that IBM had been cheating on him. He replied: "I'm suggesting, many things happened well beyond my understanding and it should be tested on other machines to see if they show up with the same kind of answers." Garry about game 6: "The best player in the world cracked down under pressure. After the computer takes on e6 (8.Nxe6), I can resign. I didn't feel like playing. I'm human. What happened in the previous games was beyond my understanding and I was scared." Garry won't mind to play another match against Deep Blue but one of the conditions he already stated is: "Only when IBM is not the sponsor.
when IBM is not the sponsor.
I complete minor piece development and have a strong center and well developed pieces. I believe white is slightly better here.
Instead I have an isolated pawn and two connected pawns.
The BK is pushed backwards.
Changed my mind, this feels like a mistake that I gave up protection of the e4 pawn. Black never takes advantage of this.
Black Resigns... Not a pretty game but a lot of fun.
The French Defence was what we played in school days, to prevent the horror of the Scholar's Mate attack; and later became my favorite when I found I couldn't really foot it theoretically with the Sicilian (1...c5).
Normally I prefer the standard 2...d5, but it does one good to vary from time to time.  I like this version of Owen's Defence, deferring the central struggle for the time being.  But Black does have to watch that he doesn't allow White to shove a pawn wedge into his centre.
Possibly this is too restrained - the GK engine 'thinks' so, indicating 4...c5.  Last time I played that I got my head handed to me.  The move played has the virtues of solidity and flexibility.  But it doesn't interfere with whatever plans White has in train.
(!) A bit embarrassing for Black.
(!?)  Apparently weakening, but it has its points.  For one thing, I just didn't fancy 6...Ne2 7.Bf6!, though, come to think of it, Black's game would not have been all that bad.  But Black has it also in mind to counter any advance White maks in the centre with an advance of his own.  Note that the Black pawns on the third rank advancing to the fourth obviate any 'en passant' captures, which might have been a nuisance.
I have a feeling that this developing move lacked any real purpose.  Possibly White had in mind to advance the Q-side pawns and bust open the c-file with the advance of that pawn.
Closing the centre.  Now for the K-side...
With two quick pawn thrusts, Black grabs the initiative.  But it has to be admitted, the bishop that has just been chased off had served a useful function in keeping back Black's f-pawn from its usual ...f5 break.  On the other hand, it was left a target, and is driven to a spot with very little outlook.
(!)  It was so tempting to take with the g-pawn and open up a file for the rook against the castled White King.  But after 19...gxf4  20.Nh4! it would have been already hard to see Black could proceed.  Maybe 19...gxf4  20.Nh4 f5!  21.Nxf5 Nf6  22.Nxg7 Kxg7  23.Qc2 (preparing the foreshadowed pawn break) ...Rg8  24.b4  Kh6  25.Qd3! Rg7 with very nebulous chances ... for both sides.  The capture played gives Black a fine post at e5 for his remaining knight.
(?) This move took me completely by surprise - and I quite failed to appreciate the implications.  I was fully anticipating 25.Nxb5 (not 25.Qxb5? Bd3!)  25...c4  26.Qb4! but maybe White didn't like his prospects after 26...Nd3 or 23...Rxa2.  Even 23...Qb6 looks OK for Black: 27.Qxd6 Qxb5  28.Rxe5 Bxe5  29.Qxe5 Rxa2.  Whether any of these lines would have led to much for Black is hard to say, but I can well understand if White wasn't prepared to test them.  But as it transpires, this Knight move was the mistake that brought White back into the game!
(?!) Thematic, but played much too hastily.  After spending so much time on the game, this was one of the moves I played with almost no reflexion at all.  A bit more thought about the implications of White's previous move might have revealed the power of 25...Ra4! and Black would have a formidible initiative on both sides of the board.
(!?) As you'd expect.  But as it transpired, White missed a fine opportunity, right here.  The Queen sacrifices itself for very promising endgame prospects:  30.Nxd6! Rb6  31.Qxb6!! (What the...?) 31...Qxb6  32.Nxf5 Rxf5  33.Bxg4 Rf8  34.Re6 ... and White has a lot of pressure on Black's position.  Well, I didn't see it at the time.  As it happens, the GK engine also gives White a plus after 30.Qxc4 Nf6  31.Nxf6.  So Black was running close to the extreme edge, here!
Resources have become very slender, with few pawns remaining, but a heck of a lot of pieces.  By the way, the 2B bs 2N motif was largely meaningless in this position, so Black's next is hardly surprising...
Biting the bullet.  Yet with no pawn remaining, how can Black win the ending?  Surely 2R plus B vs 2R is no better than with one rook apiece?  And White has extra pawns into the bargain.  The answer lay in the poor position of White's King.  Had it stood at h2, the win for Black, if one existed at all, would have been very problematic.
(?) Rather too drastic a solution, but White's game was heading south already anyway.  Instead 44.Re4 would have led to an ending in which he kept his pawns... for a while longer...
Cutting to the chase?  My opponent allowed it was a simple oversight.  But, cramped as he is - neither K nor R can leave the back rank - the game was up anyway.
My opponent opens with what I consider to be the strongest opening move.  The King's Pawn avoids many of the slower manoeuvrings of other openings, allowing White to concentrate on fast attacking play.
I respond with the Sicilian.  It creates an unbalanced board, allowing Black to attempt to call some of the shots early on in the game.
I think 4.g3 was the better move here, not really sure what the aim of White's was.  I suspect it was a passive move, waiting to see what Black's intentions were.  But I think this move tosses away the advantage White has by virtue of the colour of his pieces.
Pawn exchange.  White is in danger of losing control of the match.
I don't think this is such a good by white, because I locks in his WSB.
I love it when opponents do this, I am already at +2 and he has traded away a major piece...nothing for me to do but gain advantage.
So here, because of whites blunder with 14.)g3, he has lost tempo because he had to move his rook and I am centralizing like an angry Russian Marxist.  <n><n>This is what I LOVE about good positional play.  When you play good position opponents tend to make bad moves that you didn't even see.  This compounds, while my hold strengthens.
I couldn't believe that white let me push this pawn this far..
I couldn't believe this either!  Whites queen has no where to go!!!<n><n>This is a good example of good strategic play forcing your opponent to blunder.  I did not even see this possibility but because white is so lacking for good places to go, he panics and looses the game.
The King side seemed a bit closed.  Thought I'd try to explore the Queen side.
He offers his Queen.  My understanding that if one is being attacked, it's a good thing to exchange pieces.
I know I'll get a passed pawn now.
In hindsight, I wonder if I should have taken his rook.  Was I playing afraid given that my opponent was about 150 rating points above me?  I was concerned that if I took his rook, he'd capture my e6 pawn.  This, in combination with my fear of his numerous passed pawns resulted in my next move.
I continued on for a few more moves, hoping for a blunder.  It never happened and eventually I resigned.
I resigned here.
1. d6 my reply to any white opening
A very instructive game I played in a thematic tournament. My last game against Zauberer was a clear defeat...
The Pirc opening. A strong defense with a little drawback : the bishop f6 is blocked by the black pawns. But gives very good chances for defensive players
Move it !
with the idea of chasing the queen. Black's development is slow
Fritz says it's a bad move. It's true, but I had an idea...and didn't have Fritz to help me during the game ;-)
Material equality !<n>Now, time to look at the endgame. Zauberer has a pawn majority at king side and I've got one at queenside. For the strong players of my club, it's sufficient to win the game. I wanted to try it...
I wanted to exchange the pieces to enter in a pawn ending.
Now, let's look at the position. We enter a pawn ending.  King side : 3 VS 3 : draw. Queen side : 3 VS 2, better for me. Center : a lone black pawn. The weak point of the black structure is clearly this one. So is my plan : destroy it !!!
andtake the opposing.  Black cannot play Ke5, so cannot control d4. So, if black play d5, white play Kd4 and the position is far better for them.
Now, this side is locked. Black king cannot unlock it. <n>Black don't have any good move. d5 loses because of Kc5 zugzwang.<n>a5 loses as we will see.<n>Any king move loses (for example Kd7 Kd5 and white either make a passed pawn on the a or b files, or black stops the pawn in a or b rank, and loses the d6 and f5 pawns...)
Another zugzwang because black king cannot join e5.<n>Black king cannot save the pawn, and resigned here.<n><n>A possible continuation :<n>          d4<n>Kxd4  Kd6<n>Kc4    Kc7<n>Kc5 (taking the opposition, now it's a fondamental endgame position)<n>         Kb7<n>Kd6 (b6 doesn't help, beware of stalemates...)<n>and now white take the f5 and h5 pawns. Victory is only a matter of time.<n><n><n> This was a very instructing game for me. Hope you'll enjoy it
the Orthodox defense QGA
The Dunst (Sleipner, Heinrichsen) opening (A00). I didn't know any replies to this opening, so I play g6.
Morphy Defense, classical variation. All book so far.
The Q-side pieces bestir themselves at last.
Locking the center and clarifying the game.
Driving back the Knight. Draw agreed. White has an endgame advantage with a flank majority on the Q-side, but it would take a long time to try and exploit. Even if it could be exploited, it may not be enough to win.
This is a second game in the Smith-Morra, white (me) plays quite aggresively, then misses a very strong move that causes the game to extend to 26 moves.  I think the game shows a nice way of marching forward with threats based on black's weaknesses.
I think this is a definite inaccuracy.  Black must try to cover b5 with 8... a6, otherwise white's knight can take control of the dark squares.  Note that white has made 5 developing moves (Nf3, Nc3, Bc4, Bf4 and 0-0) while black only has three (Bc5, Nc6 and Nge7).  Conventional wisdom says a pawn is worth three tempo, white has two (and it's his turn), good development and a # of open files to use.  He also has two clear plans.
The ONLY way to retain d6 (for the moment), but my c4 bishop has just been unleashed on my opponent's kingside.  Note that rottweiler has played completely reasonable moves, and is finding himself in a huge mess.  Besides my bishop on c4, d5 is a great hole for my pieces to hop into.
Not good, but I'll examine an alternative: 10... exf4 (trying to grab some material for his misery) is met by 11.Nxf7 Qd7 (I don't know what square is best) 12.Nbxd6 !? I could grab material, but this seems more promising 12... Bxd6 13.Nxd6 Kf8 14.Qh5 with a lot of pressure on f7, according to Langrock the game might continue: 14... Ng6 15.Nf7 Qxf7 (moving the rooks is awful and if black gives up the rook white will infiltrate on h7- I can also win the d file with a great deal of pressure) 16.Bxf7  Kxf7 17.g3 and black has three pieces for the queen but it's difficult for him to mobilize, this is black's most promising line, but it seems that he'll have to survive for another 15 unpleasant moves to have any sort of play.  Development can be a fleeting advantage, but if every turn is used then it can be permanent, you're always a move ahead (or more) of your opponent.  While black has survived the brunt of the attack in this line, he's STILL undeveloped.  You do have to play quickly and aggresively in most gambits, but a developmental advantage can last a long time.
This is my worst move of the game.  In the Smith-Morra (especially when you're actually UP material) you should never have to retreat- a second after I pressed "submit" I spotted 14.Bg5 which can't be taken cause of 14... hxg5 15.Qh5#.  This move would've completely tied down black's game, and would've been a nice move for the always moving forward style that many gambits have.
So... black is lost, but he's not ready to give up yet and he's going to lash out in the following moves, the rest of the game is pretty straightforward.
Trading off pieces.
Praying for 23.fxe5?? Rxf1  mating, it's not going to happen, but what choice does black have?
And black resigns, my king is breathing a lot of air, but he can't attack it yet and g5 is devastating.  I think this game shows a carefree way with pieces (except my blunder 14.Bd2?) and an attack on light squares then dark.  The ...e5 push can save black, getting his pieces into the game and making the bishop of f4 look awful, but it can only be played with great caution.  I think the line where black gives up his queen for three pieces is very interesting, and if anyone would like to play a game (rated or unrated) in it give me a PM or challenge me.  As always please leave comments and improvements.  I hope you enjoyed!
In my opinion the most interesting variant of the Scottish Gambit from black's perspective. Unfortunately for me, this line has not been played all that often against me, so I was kind of uncertain of my play in the middle game.
I didn't really want to trade two pieces for a rook here, but 20. f5 Rxe1 21. Bxe1 Rxe1 22. Kf2 actually creates a rather dangerous situation for black, as I will look to play f6 on the next turn winning the g-pawn and creating a passed pawn that is quite far advanced. Black will still have a lot of play in that position, but I feel like I may have had a bit more chances in that line than the cautious one I took.
preventing the nightmare scenario described above, but now black has enough time to pick up the pawn.
up until now, Black has managed well; this move however is not good... better was f4, Nh5, g5...
since Bf6 is locked in, this is a trade of Bishops...
With 3 pieces covering d4 against 2 pieces it is a good time to play d4 opening the c1 h6 diagonal
Black castles and Ne4 attacks the B & N. Not wanting to lose the Bishop or N x N opening the King's defense, Black's N x N and R takes N
Ng6 clears the file for a fight so I strengthen the rear with Re1
Not sure what Re8 - e6 can do but with a piece up it seems a good time to begin trading pieces - Rd4
Rg6 is met with Rg4 for the trade.
With the pawn pinned Q e8 doubles for attack on K. Ng6 is brought forward in the attack
The most flexible reply to white's initial move. With this move black invites white to repent from his evil ways and transpose to a d4 Indian opening. Many white players may comply if black presents them with enough evidence that the Indian opening black has in mind is neither the Gruenfeld or the Benoni/Benko.
And here we have it, the Botvinnik system. On a first impression it seems that white has been smoking something he shouldn't have. He has locked up his g2 bishop behind his own pawns, has developed his King's knight to a less forceful position than f3, and now, on top of that, he has made a horrible hole in d4 for his opponent to exploit. But there's method to this madness. The idea of the Botvinnik setup is that, in exchange for all this, the center is now completely locked. Since black cannot hit back in the center with this setup, white intends to begin simultaneous offensives in the two flanks.  His plan is that he will be able to get to the black king and/or penetrate the queenside before black can take advantage of white's weaknesses. Against unprepared opposition, this plan very often gives excellent results. My opponent, however, was not in this category...
And just when black is in complete control of the game, a terrible blunder. With this move, black's light-squared bishop (which was exerting enormous indirect pressure on white's weak c-pawn) is suddenly left out of the game, and on top of that, black's rooks are suddenly left disconnected. Fritz recommends 23... Nb6!. White of course cannot then play 24. Nxe7? since he will not survive after 24... Bxc4!. But even more so, he cannot play 24. Nxb4? either, since 24...Nxc4! 25. Qd3 Rxb4 will simply kill him because of the massive onslaught in the queenside. White thus would have no choice other than 24. Bf1, which reduces him to critical passivity. It's almost unfair that, after the text move, black's excellent position simply collapses.
Hi all! This is a game I recently played in a mini tournament. I have kept my opponents name anonymous.
The Four Knights Opening. My favorite, because all of my pieces are protected and safe.
Now black takes the bait!
Central game, gambit refused
White gets material advantage but black has 4 pieces out against 3 for white (gambit situation)
Last defense try
To save the queen but the game is lost
Sicilian, I see it a lot in expert play, and I have been playing it more frequently lately.  I figure if the big boys play it, it must be good!
This is the Grand Prix Attack.
Black develops a knight, guards the advancing pawn on the e file and clears a spot kingside perhaps in hopes of a castle later. Having played this game, I know that is a dream.
A lot of white pieces in my area, I don't really like that, but my material advantage is much better with the rook in the bag.
It's to my advantage to trade pieces now. And the fork is rather nasty with his ws bishop unprotected.
Hiding behind his pieces is about my only option here.
Opening the diagonal for my bs bishop.
he can lose the rook with Rf2, or the game with Kh1. A good game, and an interesting gambit by white in the beginning.
This was a standard game between two low-ranked players. Play opened with a classic King's pawn game.
Black achieves the classic pawn centre: pawns on d5 and e5. Normally it's white who can get this - a measure of my ineptitude!
Not a move I particularly wanted to play, as it weakened my king-side noticeably. Black continued to attack on that side with his next move.
Plays this to weaken black's strong centre pawns, even if it costs white a pawn in return.
The a7-g1 diagonal is still blocked, so the black bishop cannot control it. In the meantime, white can snap up black's f-pawn to regain the lost material.
?? A blunder by black - as is obvious. He still has a reasonably strong centre, but he has lost his queen and freed white's in return (after 15 Nxg1).
English Opening. This was my standard opening at the time. I recently changed it to King's Pawn though.
Black responds with English (A30), symmetrical variation.
White responds with the English (A34), symmetrical variation.
Black responds with the English (A35), symmetrical variation. I see why they call it the symmetrical variation lol.
It's pretty obvious to me that black plans to exchange pieces. It's not always the case though, so I play this move to ensure the exchange.
This probably was not the best move. I didn't see much better at the time.
Obviously the f3 pawn is now lost.
Now the pawn is taken and lost.
Well now, white has no strong pieces. Just a few pawns and their king. It is just a matter of time now. Now we see why 22. Bb2 was a mistake. White basically has nothing left, but black has plenty left, compared to white.
Of course the g4 pawn is lost.
with the goal of exchanging knights and opening the e file.
I annotated this game as it proceeded. The annotations therefore don't have any retrospective analysis, and are only the thoughts going on in my mind while I was playing.
Although this move is part of a book opening, I don't understand what it tries to achieve. The bishop would probably have to move back to b7 anyway, so isn't that like loosing a tempo?
Black most probably played this to make his position more 'fluid' - to free his pieces. However the N has no squares where it is currently at. Black would be aiming to exchange bishops, and then play the N to b7, or maybe even c6.
makes room for the N. Alternatively black could have played 24..Bxe4
white not only lost a pawn, but a centre pawn and blacks position now looks much better as his pieces are better developed and in an open position such as this development is very important.
reopening the rooks line of attack, but Bc7 is the better retreat as it would help in my fight for the d file in some lines later in the game
best capture, taking with the pawn allows white to force the queens off when white will be down 2 pieces and two pawns for a rook but will have active prospects thanks to his control of the d file. although the game is still very much blacks to lose. taking with the bishop is obviously wrong as black will lose his best piece
I was positively surprised to see the Scandinavian defence, because it is a line that I play as well and few others seem to use it, certainly not the 2.... Nf6 line which is played in this game.
3.d4 we enter the modern variation, I don't know much of the Scandinavian lines as white, I only know what I dislike to play against. And most commonly, it's the main line of the theory.
This is also check, and I win the h8 rook and in the end get a material advantage.
Black has finally moved all of his minor pieces but can't hope to castle just yet. I don't think that taking the rook was a mistake, but you have to keep in mind that you might get a hard time defending after such a voyage of the queen in the opening.
Here my opponent resigned for the reasons mentioned above. It was a very interesting game, and I am still not convinced that either side had a clear win. I still wonder if the position after Qxg2 was level. anyways, thanks for reading, comments are appreciated.
Until here, standard, "book" moves. The two will manouver very slowly seeking for an attack line, in a strategic display.
Black has time to relocate his lsb on the big diagonal.
White's position seems overwhelming, while black is completely stuck on his third rank, pieces all together... normally, a losing scenario, but hey, it's Kasparov behind it. He has everything under control. The deepness of the defence is far beyond my ability to decode it.
Leontxo says this is a mistake. In fact, Rb1+, NxR, QxN+, and white has a hard time defending against multiple threats. But here, the simple Ne3 seems to win.
Greedy Someone else takes the pawn.
…Who takes Someone else's rook.
And Someone takes back.
I am not a favorite of this move to open for white.  It leaves too many holes.  Lets see how it plays out.
I got a bit aggressive here but it didnt hurt me or him.  The board leans in his favor at this point but not by much. If he takes the bait and strikes with the pawn i have a strategy to make him uncomfortable.
again, part of my strategy with opening that rank.  This was my best move of the game and the computer has us dead even again.  Good job by me!!!
Bad move.  I thought at this time he should have started breaking down the wall on the kings side.  Not sure why he didnt just charge ahead there.  All of his pieces are in postion
Good game.
when the knight win the game
developing the queen side pieces too late
Alternative variation: 20...Rfd8
Placing the Pawn here in spite of Black's opening move.
To guard the base QP, but N-KB3 would be a better choice. If then 4... B-N5, 5 B-K3 develops and safeguards the QP. 4 N-KB3 would also allow the development of the KB and a quick K-side castle.
Taking advantage of White's tangled development. If White had played 4 N-KB3, he would be in a position to block the diagonal of the B with an eventual B-Q3.
Exchange of the queens nearly totally stop the attack!
I have a lead in development! This will lead to something positive for me!
Black is leading in material with two light pieces! It seems like this game is lost for white!
Unfortunately for me, I was not thinkin at all in this position. My main move is 2...b5.
One of the openings I dislike very greatly is the catalan. There is quite a lot of theory in it as well. The capture of the c3 knight gives the position the structure of a nimzo indian, which is part of my main opening repertoire.
So black is playing in the center, and threatening to win material. Here is a rule you can use when ceding the bishop pair. *When ceding a bishop of a color, you can place your pawns on the color of that bishop*. It works a lot of the time in many openings. Sicilian dragon, where there is no yugoslav attack: f6, e5 if Bh6.
Now the white queen is lost, and I had believed to have won the game here. Therefore, I played the rest of my moves quickly, and counted this as a "sure win".
This is a real mistake that seriously hurts the black winning chances. 18...Nc7 was the simple alternative that led to a clean win. However, I planned this move the last turn, and decided it was best without due thought.
checkmate in two
In this game we can study the importance of a strong tactical game.
Strange move here for Black. It was better to develop the other pieces.
An attempt to place the Rook in position for an attack.
Here white has all the pieces developed, but black has a well placed Knight.
Black resigned. Rc7 would follow and with the King in bad position it would be an easy win. Hope you learned something with this game.
pawn c4 is common subject of black pieces in fianchetto line
opening of g-file will help white's attack
Hi everyone!  I thought I would talk about a recent game I won in the Barmy Army Tournament.  Looking at the rating differential you would think it should be a piece of cake for me.  I was aware of my opponent's optimum rating, however - 1330.  Looking back through his profile he has an impressive array of wins over 1400  opposition and even a 1500  player.  In those games he either delivered checkmate or his opponents resigned on the grounds of ruinous loss of material.  His playing strength is therefore very similar to The Dentist - remember him, anyone?  Well, I did manage to beat NN in 18 moves - Glenda struck again, but there was a stage in the game where I took 2 days to come back with a move for the want of a plan.  I hope you have a good read as this is all about an unusual opening.
3. c3 - this move is the Ponziani Opening, this opening is very rarely played at Master Level and is not that well known.  This move is intended to support d4, get dsb out onto e3 and then queen knight onto d2.
17. fxg3 - the pawn takes allowing mate in two.
Kings pawn opening v......
quite often I use this reply when playing against the Sicilian, I like it...
Now both sides have safely tucked their kings away it's time for the fire works to begin....
It seems the d4 pawn could determine the whole outcome of this game as it becomes the main focus of the encounter...
Black cannot defend against the twin mating threats and resigns. A very enjoyable game to play and I hope to read also. Thanks.
Supposedly the game is equal here, although black has a very slight advantage according to Fritz.
My pieces are in danger of getting rather cramped.
Better for white was Bd4 or Nd4. But his momentary failure to see this allowed me to cover it on my next move.
I am not wanting to control the f4 square, but white felt he needed to make sure he did. Fritz thinks Qg4 was much better, and this is the first move Fritz really dislikes. Nor do I do what Fritz wishes; I don't want to move a knight to c3, because it allows white to find an immediate use for his one bad bishop. But after 22. ...Ndc3 23. Bxc3 bxc3, black gains dangerous piece pressure on the queenside. One line would continue 24. Rd1 Nxd4 25. Qd3 c5 26. Ne3 Kg7 and little is left for white to try; 27. f4 is too dangerous. In this blitz game, however, I did not see this.
This is actually a pretty good move for white, if he chooses the right continuations later. Fortunately for me, he does not. I'll mention it in a bit.
I will have time now to swing my queen over, and create a little pressure down the f file. This game is just really odd at this point.
And white thinks he has shut down my attack. Well... we'll see here in a bit. I have an idea, but don't know if I have time to do it. And white can easily force my rook from f5...
Well, this could get rather ugly for black, since black's rook is rather trapped at the moment.
Rf3 here for white is dangerous for black. If Rf3, black will be hard pressed to salvage a draw. But white misses it, having decided he wants his rook to take the b pawn. So at this point, the game takes a different turn than it otherwise would have.
To keep the game from getting away from white, Qh3 was called for here. This is the game's first real blunder, and it gives black such an advantage that even in Blitz, it's not given back. After Qh3, however, black's winning chances are greatly reduced even though black still has good opportunities to draw with best moves, according to Fritz.
And this move seals white's fate; he does not have time to grab the pawn.
Going for my normal diagonal pawn defense.
I'm at -14.  Can I possibly win the game?
Again, I think 2.b3 is cleaner. This is certainly more aggressive, but I've already made it clear that I don't intend to seriously contest the b4 square right away. As of this move, we are entirely off-book (with one game in Gameknot's World database following this line for another couple of moves).
With the White Queen momentarily out of the picture, this is a good time to get off my back three ranks.
? Not the exchange line I was hoping for, but this is a subtle mistake White couldn't afford to make.
? The computer labels this a mistake, but I think White is already lost at this point.
And that's all there is. I hope you enjoyed it, and my thanks to cetst11 for a very good match! (I won't be annotating the other game in this match; I made some bad mistakes and he seized on them immediately, crushing me simply and quickly. A quick game, but not particularly interesting.) Comments and ratings are much appreciated!
White puts pressure on the c7 pawn.  Black's only defense will leave his d file pawns doubled.
?  I don't see white's strategy behind sacrificing the b pawn.  The a pawn is well defended.
Dutch defense.
I started game with King's pawn opening.
Now the game is in Sicilian, Smith-Morra gambit, Chicago defence.
The next move in Sicilian, Smith-Morra gambit, Chicago defence is Nxc3, but I wanted to sacrifice my second pawn for development (if he would take it).
I said you see the trick? Look at my development.
I don't know why he didn't attack my Queen with Rg8. When I asked him (after the game), he said, that he did attack my Queen with Bishop, and when I would move my Queen, he would take my knight.
Black is cramped and is finding it hard to find squares for his pieces
This stops c4 push for a while and the traffic jam continues for black
This is the key move of the Benoni.
And this is the basic setup; clearly it can be reached through any number of transpositions but the key pawn structure has now been set up. From here, play may continue in a number of ways, but the semi-open center and lack of Black d-pawn can make for a very fluid struggle for dominance. I like this opening already.
The Taimanov Variation. White develops with check, and announces his intentions to really constrict Black's game. The upshot is that Black's best response is 8...Nfd7, cramping his LSB and Queen's Knight. If he tries 8...Nbd7, the game is still playable but Black will have to give up material of some kind after 9.e5.
This basically guarantees a draw (if Black wants it). 17.Ne2 would have kept it interesting.
Three. 1/2-1/2; the game is drawn by threefold repetition (the actual game goes on for an extra move or two because I guess GK stopped automatically adjudicating forced draws? That's kind of annoying). Anyway, ptitroque certainly earned this one; I hope some of you found it an interesting game. Many thanks to my opponent for the game (and the others we're playing as we explore this opening), and thanks to you for reading!
Owen Defense of the King's pawn opening.
I like this move--it was the first response I considered to black's defense of the knight.  But it does put the pawn in the way of QxN.
3...b5 is also possible and many GM's, including Topalov, have used this line successfully.
Heading for the lines of the open Catalan.  White does not have the option of Qa4 .  This is the main difference in the Geller system.
Completing development and preparing to play ...Nb4 and exchanging the light-squared bishops.
This allows a simplifying combination which gives Black the winning endgame, due to the weakness of e5, b2 and the nonexistant queenside development.
Here White resigns.  Thanks to my opponent for a well played game.
Philidor's defense.
In retrospect, I'm not sure this move was a good idea because it trades away my passed pawn.
Check. Pretty much half of white's army is gone.
...but I relieve it.
Hi everyone!<n><n>So many times have my Expert and Master buddies have said how patient they have been when they have been trying to press home advantages or even deal with slight disadvantages when playing me.  Well, this time it is my turn to be the higher rated opponent here.  I end up playing against the Sicilian Dragon.  I try to break through but meet stubborn resistance and at one stage my opponent (whose optimum rating was 1562) had very much the better of it.  He slipped up very late on in the game and allowed me to win 2 pawns.  I sacrificed those two pawns to exchange into a K & P ending.  Henry had the final say and I got my first rated win in about 3 weeks.
5. ....... g6 - the Dragon Variation.
11. 0-0-0 - it is quite usual in the Dragon for white to castle on the opposite side.  Usually there are pawn rolls on each side but it doesn't quite happen here.
44. Rg6 - I thought for about 3 days before this little shot in the dark.  My opponent did exactly as I had hoped though, played straight into my conditional moves as he thought he would win back the lost material.  He does but at a cost as you will see.
48. Kd4 - black's king has duly snaffled up those white passers and although material is even in a K & P ending black is lost.  Look at all those prawns!  Henry is licking his lips.  All three ebony pawns will duly drop off and it will be a toss up between one of my three ivory pawns as to which one gets to Glendadom.  My opponent realised this and waved the white flag.  What a relief!
King Pawn's Opening
Italian Game.
Personally, I don't like trading bishops for knights in the opening till I know how the game will proceed.  The double pawns in the center is actually an asset to me.
His only defense.
My favourite opening, the Queen's Gambit. (Come on, take the pawn...)
My opponent is fighting for that pawn! In the Queen's Gambit Accepted, it is important for Black to compensate for White's control of the centre by grabbing a big share of the queenside. And if this happens to defend the pawn too...
Now he takes the bait. In fact, this was probably the best way of avoiding the loss of his extra pawn, but he still has no positional compensation for my advanced e-pawn.
My opponent is behind by a bishop, has lost his extra pawn and is cramped by my central pawns and, to cap it all, my forces are massing on the queenside.
When the dust has cleared, I suddenly have a passed pawn! This is too much. Black resigns.
Let see what we can learn from this interesting game.White-Ragozin Black-(My favourite player)Capablanca
Black now have just two pawns more then white,but white is lost in this position
this is another excellent game of chessmaster,Capablanca
Exchange of pawns
Exchange of knights. This exchange also gave me an extra bishop.
White castles to the dangerous side, putting his king in the sights of the Black Bg7. For now, though, there's no real danger, and the benefits of the White Rook on the d-file could be significant.
The GK engine considers this a mistake, but I don't really see it. Apparently 13...Nxf3 14.Bxf6 Bxf6 15.Nd5 Bd8 16.Bxf3 is strong for Black, but I was expecting 13...Nxc4 14.Nd4 Qc5 15.Bf4 with an attempt to trap the BQ somewhere on the horizon (as it happens, the GameKnot engine assumes this line as well, but considers it slightly advantageous for Black).
?? The final mistake. Refusing to put his Queen in quarantine on b8, Black misses the trap and this time, White follows through correctly.
1-0. With nowhere else for his Queen to run, Black resigns in the face of overwhelming material loss (23...Qd8 24.Rxd8 Rxd8 25.Qxc5 is easily enough to prove decisive). Many thanks to hinschi for a fantastic game! I hope some of you enjoyed reading it; especially the last six moves or so. Comments are appreciated; thanks for reading!
Central game, my favourite opening for the moment with the white.
I don't understand this move.
The black queen 's in campaign
A king needs an advisor at his side, expecially in times of trouble.
Material equality, Little defense on both sides. Both pawn structures are almost totally destroyed, black controls the open d file, both kings are unprotected and under menace (the two black knights are dangerous for white and his king has found his lady back and stays on the open file). White's pieces are more mobile and White has the initiative.
This game is easier and quieter than the accepted exd5 and its consecuences. And I played it a lot, so I felt confortable with it.
...but it's all foreseen. Qa5 works too.
One of the thematic attacks. Here I lost the track and did make my first (I think) real "inaccuracy".
? Black's game is in keeping the tension "on" in order to control the game with a constant threat on the center, pressure on the c column and intelligent use of Nb4... and I am throwing it all out with this move! In addition, I have no support against a future b3 because of my previous tempo loss allowing a5. And now I would struggle to develop. A very bad move for sure!
Here it comes. It's very good game, except that I'm "coming late" since I lost precious tempos.
...a new defender for g6 and and Sopen column for my R. But my pieces are stuck and undeveloped. I'm lost... except that white has to manouver wisely in order to develop himself...
Probably a suboptimal choice, after Rh5. Neverhteless, I opted for
is a check. No choice for white...
...and all my "fantastic" idea lent me into a -5 position, fighting two minor pieces with a R. I should lose, right? My only potential soldier is the pawn g7. It's my hero. As long as it stays where it is...
Black thinks he reached a sort of shield so proceed to take away one of the strongest threats over his king. Now, it has two squares to go.<n>Leontxo says NxN was better, but it is unclear to me how black position would hold after exd5, reassetting the central pawns. Nxd5 or Rxd5 seem good too!
I cannot see why Kh5 is not preferable.
This was an interesting game that had me extremely pressured and on the defence despite being a whole piece ahead. White begins the game with the Bird's Opening
nothing special so far...Black has slightly better control of the centre, while White could have an opportunity for a future kingside attack - nothing decisive so far
the start of a pawn chain, and a chance to get up a piece. Will White see it?
! the threat here is 8...Bxa3 9.bxa3 Qxb5, with the added bonus of doubled pawns on the a file. White sees this and tries to stop the threat....
? were it not for this move. White should have played Bxd7 first, and now Black wins a piece...
like this. Now it should just be a simple matter of trading down material to have an endgame advantage for Black
sure, why not? it's now Black's four pawns against White's two pawns
and I naturally defend, with the threat of a discovered attack on the queen
right now, White can't do anything - Black has total control of this game
! Now White will get a passed pawn - two moves before promotion!
this move, it spells the end for White.
and now my two passed pawns - my last hope - will fall, and it's here where I resign. Good game :)
English opening.
Hope this helps.<n>Best regards,<n>Ray
an interesting game, in which I tried to trap my opponents queen at the expense of a few pawns. The queen eventually escaped and left me in a poor position. Valuable lesson learnt!!
cant think why I played this as it blocks path of Bishop if Kings Indian defence is played. Planning an attack on f3 pawn at this stage was a mistake.
Played this to find out what the intentions of Ng5 were.
a7 pawn now lost.
Main Line so far.
White is castled and almost fully developed. Black only has two pieces developed and is not ready to castle. This seems like a good time for white to look for attacks.
Forget limbo, let's try heaven...
Black initiates a trade. It's not favorable to the player who is behind in material, so white is glad to oblige (not that black gave white any choice in it).
Playing 34. axb4 or 34. cxb4 seems to win another pawn for white, but after black plays 34. ... axb4 and white recaptures on b4, white has doubled pawns on the b-file and black responds with 35. Rc2, forking the pawns on b2 and g2 and regaining the lost pawn immediately. Worse, black then has his own slice of heaven with a rook on his 7th rank.
Keeping black off of c2. How hard can it be? White is up by two pawns and has a passed pawn. Each side only has a rook to play with. Should be an easy endgame, right?
OK, no point in letting him have his draw. Besides, I think I found a way to get a queen. I spent lots of time here. If this had been a timed game in a tournament room, my time would surely have run out. Well, I would have spent less time and gone with my gut much sooner. I decide to let black have his slice of heaven back.
Never have 4 little steps looked so far. The pawn takes the first step.
See? The royal gown looks good on him!
Time for a king+queen checkmate, even though the white king must realize this guy in the gown is not the queen he began the game with... This is the point that black resigned. A fun endgame, one for the books (well, my books anyway), and my third longest game on GameKnot (would have been my longest game if we played out the eight or ten moves to a checkmate). I doff my hat, white_knight_03, you gave me two good games (our first was a draw).
My dear friend Elena has asked me to annotate this game for her. So I do so!
White opts for a closed version of it. I think this move rather lacks bite.
This is quite sound too
This rather wastes a move. If Black wanted to play this, she could have played d7-d5 in one move rather than two. Still it threatens d5-d4, so White has to do something about this threat.
So White takes.
Black takes back.
White takes.
Black correctly takes back with the knight. Taking back with the pawn was possible and gives a slight edge to Black, in terms of more space controlled. This is better though, it makes it a lot easier to attack the weak White pawn on d3, along the semi-open d file.
So Black takes the bishop
White takes.
Black takes back
Black takes
White takes back
White takes.
It is nicely centralised here, ready for action on either side of the board.
So white takes.
Black takes.
White takes back
This is a very poor move. PMCA gives 41. Qb7 f6 42. Qe4 Qd7 43. Qf3 Qd6 44. Qe3 Qd1 45. Qe7 Qg1+ 46. Kh3 Qf1+ 47. Kg3 Qd3+ 48. Qe3 Qd6 49. Qe8 as better, but I like simply 41. Qe2 preventing the Black king from advancing. I don't see how Black can then make any more progress.
White throws in a check, no doubt hoping for Kh6?? allowing Qg5!! and a draw. However Black has better.
Black protects.
White has no sensible moves, and has the unenviable choice between losing a third pawn or allowing a queen exchange into a hopeless ending.
Black takes and White finally gives up. Many thanks for reading, I hope you enjoyed it. Don't forget to rate it on the star system and leave a comment or two to let me know how I am getting on. Until next time dear reader!
Wildrook28 is a good friend of mine and in the unranked games we have played with each other this opening seems to be the most successful for me against him.
This is the second time I have ever played this opening, the previous against wildrook28 himself.
To my delight he takes.
I know I needed to take his pawns on the left side of the board otherwise I would have regretted it.
The move that lost the game for him.
Now 21.e5 takes attention, so we must to make a "tree" of possibilities... <n><n>This type of pawns in the fifth row, "cut" in two sides the board, and it's difficult to transfer the pieces if one attack is generated... I'm seeing it (Jorge) a lot of times in tournament games, so:<n><n>21.e5 axb2 and now we must calculate <n>a) 22.exf6 bxa1=Q 23.Rxa1 Black's castle pawns don't be touched - by Qd3! reply - but unfortunately something like 23... Rfe8 24.fxg7 Kxg7 25.Qd3 - trying Qh7+ is confronted by 25... f5!<n>b) 22.Rab1 is a simple solution, with an attack if, for example, game goes 22...c5 23.exf6 cxd4 24.cxd4 <n><n>So,
Now, 24... Bxf5 is strong and 25.exf5 c4. After this Bb1 and Ra1 are out of play... so game is decided.
Alekhine Defence..it's far more fun to play than most chess openings .<n>it's also much underestimated opening .<n>My openent is a good player , i played him twice till now and both games are very nice.
so its the four pawns attack !<n>most players try to avoid it maybe because its the most analysed line in Alekhine defence .<n>but i think its very intersiting for both sides.
9. ...    Qd7  was played before and gave black a nice position to play even though black lost.<n>the move in the game is in my notebook where i believe is the best here keeping the presure on the d4 pawn and open all posbilities .
ok  time for the d4 pawn
ok this is the worst move in the game  :(<n>and i'm really sad for that !<n>21.kf2   is better <n>21....   Nc4
it's over<n>very nice game , iam proud of it <n>my openent is a strong player and u cant sleep amoment with him .
I hate the scotch.  I have played many games over the board against strong players who have played the scotch, and it is by far the hardest white system for me to play against.
Capturing towards the center has many advantages.  In this case,  it allows me to play ...d5 right away, as well as opening up a file for the rook on a8 and a diagonal for the B on c8
adding another piece to the mating game
Hmmm, is he gonna exchange off pieces this early? i sometimes get uncomfortable with trading off this early i wonder if the opponent just likes to take rather than think..generally speaking.
Very coy.....how cute...
can't remember why i did this but it looks good, right? I think i saw this in a book and decided to give it a go....
That back door again? Probably not. i'm hoping for a miracle i'm rubbing that lamp real hard but no genie is appearing..
I'm not liking this knight advance, we're all level material wise so i'm happy to exchange off a few pieces but i'de rather not right now because positionally i think he would be better off, lets see what happens...
Erk!...too late to cause an irritation on the queen side now..
Bye bye...It's about time he did a bit of the retreating..
I'll have to make do with a pawn...
No choice....
And there we have it, still havn't worked out what went wrong, i'll work it out though. Cheers, good game.
The Sokolsky, an opening I employ occasionally with rather good results; nobody seems to know how to play against it, and the mix of positional play and tactical tension suits me fine. It's also basically asymmetrical in nature, leading to dynamic, fluid positions with little chance of ending ending in a draw.
We're still deep in opening theory here, and White has several good options. 4.Nf3 is also good.
White is in no hurry to exhange in the center; if Black captures on c4 White will recapture and develop his bishop in one move. Also, White is now in a real hurry to get his king safely tucked away before Black can start operations for real.
Ah! It happened! Black has now lost the knight on h5.
But this time White ignores the threat against the knight. Black cannot touch it - it's toxic: 38...Qxd5 39.Bf4+ Kh5 40.Rg7! and Black is lost. 40...Rh8 41.Rc1 Bb6 42.Rc8! Qa2+ 43.Kg3 and mates.
The discovered check means the pawn on f6 is lost as well.
HELLO followers.fans,friends and WATCHERS!!!(SPECIAL SHOUT OUT TO SMART DONKEY!!!!).Well fans brace yourself faithful few this is a game i lost.Here we go i open with e3.Should have went e4
His development is definately better.Looking at mine it is awful
Finally this awfully played game by me is over.I know my fans are dissapointed with my sorry play in this game.Iknow i am.GOOD DAY GOOD CHESS
Black is lost.
And the game begins
Ripping down the defense a pawn at a time
Notice how all of my pieces are in postion to attack a very suspect defense.  Also, He has not developed his Queens knight and his King's Knight is hanging out in an alley!
This is how I was punished in previous game.
Chasing a lost cause
Shouldn't have let him attack my pawn.
This was the key move in this mate. Anything else and it wouldn't work. Spent some time.
Not very well played in mid game but the end made up for it.
...and completing it.
23. exd5 - both of us have tried to expand on the kingside and queenside respectively but this has just resulted in an exchange of pawns.  However, white now has a passed d pawn.
47. Kxb4 - after a lot of manoeuvering about there is no saving my b pawn and white still has his passer - but, unfortunately for him my king is blockading the pawn on a different colour square to the white lsb.  Although there are same colour bishops I feel this game is heading for a draw.  Here I offer him a draw but he declined.  However .......
Chekhover variation of the Sicilian Defense.
I would have moved the bishop, so long as QxPb5 remained an option.  Though this has potential.
The very quiet game
?! I feel this is an inaccuracy. Two minor pieces are usually better than a rook and a pawn, as is shown in this game as my minor pieces mill around his king.
So I played this move to gain more central control and prepare to develop my LSB.
Black is clearly better. He has much superior piece activity (his rook is abysmal though, but no worse than white's.)
White *finally* completes his development
I took a *long* time on this move.
I overlook it too.
This adds defense.
White has been saddled with doubled pawns but has a solid position.
Black does not fear d4 yet. However it is a long term threat if the Rook's activity can be restricted.
At this point, White has the advantage, the bishop pair and an extra pawn.
Joanne resigns, there is no good reply for Black.
The exchange variation. I'm playing for a specific sub-variation that is known to give black trouble.
This is the variation I wanted to play - the so-called "Voronezh Variation"  White evacuates the a1-h8 diagonal in an attempt to eliminate much of black's counterplay.
"?" How will black complete development of his Q-side after this? Best is probably 16...Bd7, getting the other rook into the game. Not 16...dxc4?! 17.bxc4 then White will play Rfd1 and Nb5, and the hole on d6 & isolated e-pawn are big problems for black.
?! Eliminating the black K's last remaining defender, but after the game I found 25.Qe4! which leads to a much quicker win (the GK game analysis computer agrees).
Black plays book and is attacking my pawn
I take his pawn and am now attacking his knight. This is book. This is my third move and I have not developed a minor piece. Playing too many pawn moves could end up getting me doubled pawns in an exchange. So far I feel I have played book and am up a pawn.
I  retake the knight with my pawn and now have doubled pawns and a pawn on e5 that is unprotected. With this move I still have  all my pawns, neither of us have developed minor pieces.
Black has developed his DSB and it has a nice look at my f2 pawn.
Bxh7+ I decide to put Black in check with my LSB. At least if black takes with his King. I can move my Queen out of danger.
Qxc1#   Checkmate   The End!   hope to hear from all who wish to discuss this game!
Maybe not the most aggressive, but I wanted to focus on the white´s king while having a solid pawn defense  on the other side.
This, as noted before, is a real pain, since N in f6 cannot be moved whithout causing the rook exchange and the Queen activity within black´s defensive lines.
Spent a lot of time here thinking about Bg4. Didn´t see anything convincing. Now I am under 20 secs left.
!! Nice one! Threats Rg1 if gxf6.  10 secs for black... nothing to do? This is the end of the game, but after 20-30 more secs I saw: 34...Qe4! <n>This is why I wanted to share this game. I found it interesting and fun. Intention of checkmate in c2, and checks in e3 with strong attack. Also now gxf6 can be done.<n>Hope you enjoyed it!
I enjoyed this game, not much in the begin but as it progressed, saw an opportunity an it payed off, nice. Even if it's is against a lesser ranked played no disrepect intended to my opponent. A win is a win an it's a great feeling !!
who has the upper hand?
but not for long!
this is a fun aspect of the pawn game..pushing pawns to the end...
depending on what he does next..its game over...
this!
Not good - after 9...bxc4 10.Nxh8, the knight is trapped and Black has the advantage.
White has won the exchange, but Black has the better development, so the game isn't over yet.
Unfortunately, it's not easy (because of previous moves) for Black to complete his development quickly and effectively. So although this move doesn't actually develop a piece it was probably the best available since it hinders White's development (although at the expense of a pawn).
Either 20...Qxc1 or 20...Nd7 wins the game for Black. 20...gxf6 would probably be good enough for a draw.
It's hard to understand the rationale for this move.
White is aiming for rapid development and a lightning attack on the black king.
At this point, it is unclear how successful the attack will be, although it seems not to work; the king is currently trapped, but if the white knight comes over, then his chances look good.
The attack is basically repulsed, since it is hard for black to maneuvre and the white king will have a clear route to the Q-side.
White has won back his queen, but is not satisfied.
Simple. White had an excellent attack in this game, although he could have mated much quicker than he did.
It's been a while since I annotated someone else's game, so naturally when no_genius sent me a request to annotate this GK blitz win I jumped at the chance :)
Curiously, the world DB recommends 5. c3 even though Black has not attacked the pawn. Presumably the reasoning is that the move will have to be played sooner or later anyway. In any case, the next two moves by each side are obvious, and we reach the same position regardless of the order they are played in.
Black's intentions are clear, at least: "Place your rook on the line of the queen, whatever the pieces that lie between." This is the start of a minority attack, aiming to divert the c3 pawn from its defence of d4. This plan justifies Black's choice of 11... Bxf6.
"Let's settle this once and for all." White wants the pieces on d2 and g4 removed from the board to give his other pieces more room to rearrange themselves.
Now Black is the one with the backward pawn. However, White will find it difficult to attack, in view of how much better placed Black's king is than White's. White therefore switches plans and doubles up on the newly opened f-file:
Now we have a queen versus a pawn on the seventh rank. This would be interesting without the other pawns, but with them on the board Black just has an easy win by sacrificing his queen for the pawn. (For the record, without the other four pawns Black wins by 52. Kd6 Qh3! keeping White's king from getting in front of the pawn. If Black plays any other move, White has a draw, since the pawn is on a bishop's file and Black's king is too far away.)
Black now has an easy win (even if you remove both Black pawns!) so White resigns. Well played, and thanks to no_genius for showing me this game; it was an interesting one to play through.
No k-side development from black as of yet.
Connecting pawns opening for the bishop
Black ignores this and places an attack on the unprotected bishop
This means war
This is foreseeable
Blitz with e4!  I definitely cannot make good positional judgments in a quick game compared to, say, correspondence.
Darn, a Sicilian, he probably is booked up decently well in his line, and I don't want to have to fumble around with what little knowledge I have, so I avoid all that with...
The Alapin variation.  I know, I'm definitely a wuss for not adventuring into Open Sicilian lines.
I suspect 4... d5 is stronger here, playing the position similarly to the Nimzovich Defense
??<n><n>My opponent is clearly playing too quickly, and I go into a relatively deep think here (about 20-30 seconds) assessing the position for my tactical shot.
But this mate is prettier in my opinion.  Knight mates happen all the time, so I find it slightly more aesthetically pleasing when a pawn mates.
For sometime now, favoured opening.....
Normal reply !
So far, all pretty normal for a London. Black can do two things: c5, and get countergame on the queenside, or try to castle queenside, instead. Black didn't make the mistake of Nc6 before c5, but castled kingside. This makes it a perfect target for me. It would be exaggerated to say that white has an edge, but black has to play with more care that it seems.
My Nd2 has only one scope in this opening: to be exchanged with this black N.
A piece is lost... or more.
Opening a square for his N to retire, but...
And black resigns. It's not only hanging two minor pieces with almost no action, but he's facing a dreadful discovered check after BxN. A good lesson about how very slight careless moves can lead you right into the hell against a London :-D
Hi everyone!<n><n>Another game with the Master Mater and another game where Jo gets Freddied.  Henry gets the dubious honour of being "Knighted" at the end.  How does this happen, well, read on.  We pick up the action on move 8.
26. Bxh5 - I do a little pawn grabbing of my own but it doesn't help.
Hi everyone!<n><n>My buddy Bob Jacobs drew my attention to a victory he had obtained against a player of near-IM strength.  In fact he is currently an IM.  In this game, however, Bob's opponent slipped up big time and immediately resigned on the grounds of Ruinous Loss of Material.  So, how did all this happen?  Well, here is the Gameknot Analysis version of the game.  http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=17771714&fb=1&rnd=0.860014379173279.  Bob starts with his favourite opening, the Queen's Pawn Opening.
3. .... Nf6 - development.
21. ...... Qxe4+?? - what an oversight!  Does Bob capitalise on it? ...... wait for it ......
22. Qxe4!!! - Yeeeeeeeees he does!!  Black immediately waved the white flag.  It just shows, Masters are human and they make chessic howlers, but they are not Masters for nothing - it is very rare that they do make oversights.  Bob should still take credit for this victory - first he must spot the hanging piece.  He must then decide whether it is a sacrifice or a mistake.  Firstly he must look at his king and check that he is not in Old Matey's shadow or that if he does take the hanging material he will not then cop Old Matey.  He must also ascertain that after the capture, his opponent does not have any other riposte or positional counterplay.  Black had none whatsoever and so, having just a pawn for his queen, resigned on the Grounds of Ruinous Loss of Material even though his opponent is 800 points south of him - it was just too much.  Anyhow, another known Master has slipped up big time and he will be joining Bob on my It Can Be Done Thread.  See you soon - Joanne
This move is quite good, but it isn't the main line.
BLITZ Chess of 5 minutes each<n>BaronDerKilt(aka ccmcacollister) vs chimx <n>King's Gambit <n>A miniature most notable for its final move
There should be two smiley faces painted on that move 12.O-O / One time clear back in about 1981 or 82 I won a skittles game that ended O-O-O# for the Checkmate. It has taken this long to finally add the second bookend to the set~! <n>To add some symmetry, perhaps irony; while this game from a King's Gambit Declined ends with O-O# ... the game ending in O-O-O# was won by WT from the QUEENS Gambit Declined ?!! ... Hmmmm<n>  }8-) <n>Thanks to my opponent for playing this one all the way thru.
I've encountered this move a couple of times, but not very frequently. Again, he says he wants to get out of the book -- but why leave the book when the recommended move is supposed to be good for White?
White's pawn development is very passive, preventing development of the dark bishop and keeping the game closed.
!? (Interesting move)<n><n>I decide to offer a bishop trade in the hopes of opening the f file for my rook while removing the hated bishop.  I marked this as interesting, not so much because of the individual move itself, but rather the idea behind it.
Opening the f file.
Accepted challenge from eesther  not aware that this player was undefeated. Thanks for the game!<n>At the end of this game, that clean sweep was stopped. Red fox is Rising and shows why in our game.<n>I am not going to try to explain move by move as I have done in most of my past annotations. Please do this for me. This annotation was made by me to promote this game we all play. eesther has told me to annotate our game and will also add comments. on with the game white opens e4.
book
? I'm not sure what happened here, pawn is pushed and is hanging! Crazy like a fox I guess, If game continued this way it would of ended quickly.
Well this is interesting, why not? Let's move my Queen early. I'm sure this will get the LSB to either move or get protected, The f7 pawn is in attack.
this pawn is now played exposing my DSB with a nice view of the black diagonal towards the side of the board.
This is where my  LSB is finally developed on the main diagonal looking at the many pieces.
LSB retreats a 2nd time
N takes N
B takes P
P takes P attacking R
P takes P attacks N
P takes P
N takes DSB
Q takes N
R takes P
N takes P attacks Q it also protects P on g6
B takes N
R takes B
B takes P
! B takes P and checks +
recognize this? this is a opening for black in a game i also annotated
for black, moving to d5 is forfeiting the opening, entering middle game. note that I do see the impending trouble of e5, thus Nc6
should i have done Qe3+! ? I could have mate in two after 9...Qe3+10Kc2Nb4/e4#.<n>this opening works pretty well against e4 with a pawn push.
however, i did not notice the mate in two, so....
this was a tactical blunder. technically I could have won with a good game if i had seen the mate in two. I wish I saw that. stupid 2 min 5 second delay
Hi everyone!<n><n>I am playing in a MT in memory of the victims of the Japanese Earthquake.  Both the above players are my current opponents.  I saw that my buddy Jim had lost his Master status and found that he had, sadly, lost a game to a Class B player called Delta38.  It shows that amateurs CAN BEAT Masters and as I am currently playing a huge crop of Masters and a Grandmaster I will play through this game to show myself how it can be done.  Gameknot Analysis is provided here: http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=15498364&fb=1&rnd=0.41857366360436593.  Jim starts off with 1. e4 and Delta gives him the French Defense with e6.
30. ..... d3 - Jim accepts the sacrifice and Delta pushes his d pawn to d3 where it backs up the b2 pawn.  I think that next up is Ba3 and if Rxa3 then c1/Q+ comes next.  The rook on b2 will be trapped so Jim resigns on the grounds of ruinous loss of material and Old Matey will not be too far away.  This is an absolutely awesome result for Delta because Jim Friar is a very strong player and here are my past game stats against him - past games against therealjimfriar (won/lost/drawn): 0 (0%) / 7 (87%) / 1 (12%).  Yup, I think the Master Mater will be certainly quaking in his hiking boots if he ever comes across a Delta!  Anyhow, I hope you have all had a good read.  Bye for now - Joanne
My opponent in this game, kneilca, sent me a challenge with the message "Please feel free to comment on the game", so, after a long gap, I have another annotation to share with everyone.
...and the most common response is this pawn sacrifice, hoping to gain an advantage in development in compensation.
Getting back to the actual game: Black has only one realistic response to this move, 6... Qxd5, putting g2 under fire. In this line Black hopes his pressure on White's kingside will be sufficient compensation for the pawn.
Castling in this position is very bold; maybe too bold. The main alternative is 8. Qf3, hoping to defuse Black's pressure. Of course Black would not exchange but would play 8... e4; however, the long diagonal would at least then be blocked.
White completes development so more pieces are available to defend the kingside; a sensible decision.
White resigned, citing the forced line 21... Bxf3+ 22. Qxf3 Qxf3+ 23. Rg2 Qxg2#. Thank you for the game, and thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk about one of my favourite opening variations :)
HI guys, this is my fourth annotation. This will be the match between me and obee_ton, which I have no knowledge of.
My standard opening
I always use this opening as I find it lead to a open game, which I prefer. It was also what I was taught to do at chess club.
Trade is declined
Bg5 is a great move as if he moves Be7 I go Be7 and the queen is lost and gooffie is down on even more material, gooffie could play Qg5 but then Nf5 resulting in -10 points. This was a swift game but I usually don't start this aggressive but it worked this time. gooffie resigns
Too little, too late. White hits upon the correct idea of advancing his Q-side pawns, but Black dominates in the center far too much for this to end any way but painfully.
? 25. Kh1! would have prevented the Black Queen from joining the attack with tempo.
This game illustrates the fact that, although you may have a pawn center in a closed or semi-closed position, often the best course of action is not to attempt an attack on the K-side. Also, when the character of a position changes and becomes more open, centralization often leads to an unstoppable attack when ignored.
I played White in this Mini-Tournament game. I think it is an instructive example of how to have good piece coordination in the middlegame.
My only advantage is my bishop pair, while Black has control of the centre, which cramps my position and makes it hard to find a plan. It's still only the opening, so I'll have to wait and see what Black does before I can find a plan.
Black has wasted moves trying to stop me from opening the position to his king, but I'm going to get an open file sooner or later. It's not too late for Black to walk his king to the kingside, but Black kept his king in danger on the queenside to hope to consolidate a defense, but that defense deactivated all of Black's army I was able to exploit.
Nxb5 was a lot better, because my pieces cannot slip in easily and Black has time to defend his weaknesses. axb5 is pretty much a blunder, because that completely opens the a-file so my threats come 1 right after the other and Black never has time to generate counterplay.
This is the most solid defense, since Nc8 gives me too much control of the a-file, but when Black defends like this, his pieces become totally inactive where I can exploit my superiorly coordinated pieces. Nc8 is probably better, since Black doesn't have to defend so passively, and has a better chance to recover from the attack.
I've gained a lot of tempo in the attack, and devalued Black's pieces. The rook on a8 is completely immobile, and surrounded by pieces that cannot leave the defense of the other immobile pieces. In positions like this, the attacker has to find the right moves to slowly squeeze the opponent out of defensive options.
Black will have to make this move anyway, and this makes way for f5 to start a pawnstorm on the kingside. I'm pretty sure I can capitalize on my superiorly coordinated pieces before Black can make progress on the kingside.
Black has 5 immobile pieces clumped on the queenside. The queen or king cannot move because they have to defend the a7-knight, which also can't move because it's blocking the immobile rook, and now Black's other knight is paralyzed since it defends against Rb6 . My 3 major pieces have demobilized most of Black's army. Black's only mobile piece is the h8-rook that cannot do much damage, so I have him where I want him. The only way I can overcome Black's clump of immobile pieces is if I can somehow get my bishops active in attacking Black's defensive pieces.
This move prepares for a Be1-Bg3 maneuver. Attacking an immobile piece is the key to cracking any defense. Black can try stopping my bishops' infiltration with 22...exf3 23.Bxf3 h5 24.Be1 h4, but I can force open the position with 25.g3, after 25...h3 26.g4 the only thing stopping Bg3 is f4, but Black's position falls apart after I win that pawn. If 25...g5 instead of 25...h3, then 26.g4 forces open the centre since I'll trade pawns on f5 and then breakthrough with d4.<n>26...fxg4 27.Bxg4 attacks an immobile piece
So I carry on with the most common reply.
Black can try the Fajarowicz variation 3...Ne4 which concentrates on the rapid development of the pieces, but it is virtually refuted by 4. a3! If white now tries to hang onto the pawn, he usually fails, or gets a compromised position.
So I play this, opening up a discovered attack with my queen, on the Ng4. Now Nxe5 is met with 5. f4 and white has a space advantage.
I put my faith in development again.
This was another surprise. After the game we looked at lines like 11. c5	Ng4 12. Nf3	Bxh2+ 13. Kh1 Nxf2+ 14. Rxf2 Qxf2 15. Kxh2 and although black has a narrow material advantage - rook and two pawns for bishop and knight - black has lost all his attacking pieces except his queen, which can be harassed. The initiative has passed to white. Unfortunately instead I made a dreadful error.
So now black is just a pawn up, although maybe it would be hard to make anything of it, as it is a doubled pawn.
He takes back.
My king reaches relative security on d1. He has 3 pawns for a knight, but I have an edge now. Round about here I turn down a draw.
He avoids the exchange of queens.
But onwards the pawn marches - it may have been better to finish black's development and prepare to play 0-0-0. At last most of my pieces are working well together.
He takes.
So Dewi takes.
He takes back.
Now he is losing at least another one pawn, and the position is lost.
So he takes with check.
With this move.
This is too slow.
And Dewi now resigned. Many thanks for reading. Please rate this on the star system, and leave a message or two. Until next time dear reader!
White can try to hang on to the extra pawn for a while with 3. c4, but this opens lines and aims for development over material.
Played immediately. In a non-blitz situation, I would've looked to see if moves like Be3 or Bf4 were better; in blitz I jump on the chance to move the king to a slightly worse square. Lasker's old saying, “When you see a good move, look for a better one” wasn't meant for games this fast!
Going in for the checkmate. Looks like it is time for my final assault. Final because if it fails I lose immediately.
38. Ke7 and Kf7 fail to 38. ... Rg7+. 38. Kd5 ends with 38. ... Rd8. 38. Ke5 seems to be white's only real option. It is not surprising that neither of us saw this though. 20 second increments may seem like a lot but when you are in a pressured game the time disappears quickly.
Easily punished me, and I deserve it. Thanks for watching this short game.
...I resign. At least the Tigers won their game, even if I lost mine.
3....Na6?I really don't know the aim of this move.
Prefers the exchange variation
Perhaps better was Kxg6, hxg6, Qxg6, with 2 pawns for the lost knight (and black on check)
Black welcomes the exchange, since it helps him develop, while he also has material advantage
Even more trades, black is hoping for an advantageous finale
Game finished...   0-1
Stopping any chances of a pin (never really had played against sicilian prior to this game)
Even now White has the advantage with his connected pawns. This game was a winner for sure if only White moved 43 Rxh7. My brother was (understandably) extremely intimidated by the rating of his opponent and settled for a draw.<n>This game was played on the first round on board two at the Washington State Team Tournament in 2006. Where his opponent's team went on to take 3rd place at State! Jeremy Jusak finished that year as the 4th best Senior in the State of Washington!
This is not check!
With 2 extra pawns, the opposite color bishop ending is now won for white.<n>The plan is to make passed pawns on opposite wings, as far apart as possible.<n>Just because it's (theoretically) won does not mean it's resignable; the game HAS to be played out. One slip by white and it's drawn again. Black just has to suffer and patiently wait for a chance.
In this match Malpas & Oswestry were home to Wrexham in Malpas. We(Malpas & Oswestry) were missing several players, so I had to play on top board, rather than board 4. I had already lost to Bob with black earlier in the season, where he played 1. e4 and an open Sicilian. Instead now he plays The English Opening. The English derives its name from the English (unofficial) world champion, Howard Staunton, who played it during his 1843 match with Saint-Amant and at London 1851, the first international tournament.
With this.
I decided to turn it into the symmetrical variation of the English Opening. It is drawish, but hey I'd be happy to draw with Bob.
He takes.
He takes the open file.
I contest it.
He takes.
I attack his rook, and drawn on my suggestion. As we were already 3-0 down in a five board match, my opponent agreed. After the game we found that white actually has a combination here, which wins a pawn - 14. Qe8+ Bf8 15. Nxh7! Many thanks for reading, please rate this on the star system, and leave a comment or two to let me know who is reading my annotations! Until next time dear reader!
I gain in time by capturing a developed piece in return for an undeveloped one. I was expecting the simple recapture 14 QxB.
Well, my little tactical excursion led nowhere, but I did exchange a pair of minor pieces and get a Knight planted on K5, so I'm not unhappy with the result.
...I can trade off the Queens. With every exchange my material advantage looms larger.
...but this time, White declines.
I have an edge on the Q-side with my Pawns.
Mission accomplished. Black could have resigned...
...but my opponent is wise ito this.
...and snaffle another pawn, for good measure, opening up my right-hand side.
Now my opponent has no choice but to block here...
...so I cover it.
If my opponent hadn't resigned here, what is best: Kc1 or h5?
This was only a quick play game, but leads to an interesting king side attack.
He takes back.
He takes.
I take back. We now have a classic position - white has the good pawn centre, but black is attacking it.
He develops his knight - really he has lost 2 moves playing it to a6 and back.
I was so proud of this exchange sacrifice at the time. Fritz tells me however, it was unnecessary and taking on f6 with the bishop is plus 12.94 to white, and second best move is Nf5. Fritz is wonderful at bringing you back to ground!
He takes.
So I played this.
and with it being mate next move, he resigned. Many thanks for reading! Please rate the annotation on the star system and leave a comment or two to let me know how I am doing. Until next time dear reader!
Basic e4 opening
Bishops opening is back
Queen's Gambit...my favourite opening.
Three! Isn't it amazing how quickly the attacking pieces leap into position with this attack! Suddenly, checkmate is forced - this is why ...Kg8 is considered inferior to ...Kg6. But then, Black is in big trouble anyway.
Escaping the checkmate in 1, but this allows a picturesque checkmate in 5.
I'm playing the "Froms Gambit"
He has mostly moved pawns, so far.
The purpose of this move is to give black a potentially useful move, while waiting for the opponent to make a decision. Perhaps the best move for white here is 10.Na3-c4, with a slight edge. Since black has not made any strange or questionable moves, he cannot be much worse.
Now black has at least equalized, with plenty of activity.
Black's pieces are very active, while white's are a bit worse. Black should be better, but white's next sequence made me do strange moves that lost the advantage.
This move is rather passive, but it does hold the center, which is what black has aimed for. Therefore, white has only a small advantage. My opponent, not wanting a draw, becomes rather frustrated with the fort not crumbling and loses most of his advantage. 24.Rd4! was strongest.
Exhanging queens is suicide for my winning chances and probably would lose, due to the queenside majority white has, that will give him distant passed pawn. Besides, I am now playing to win. By the way, here is a rather advanced rule about the endgame that most players don't understand- Endgames, even those with equal material, are certainly not drawish, even if only 2 pieces are left. Some certainly are, but most are not. Most people would assume a draw here, which is totally wrong. If both sides play perfectly, a draw of course, but that is for any about equal position. Instead, both sides have appropraite ways to improve, and playing for a win is just as reasonable as in a typical middlegame position. Most players tend to think that equal endgames are draws. They are, but not easily at all! Any equal position is technically drawn with best play, but that requires both sides understand what they have to do. So I am playing to win here.
You see? Black has slowly improved the position, but white has no idea of what he needs to do. To tell the truth, it is not easy, so therefore white should stay put and cover some weaknesses the best he can. The key in the endgame is that the stronger side pushes the pawns, and the weaker side keeps the pawns at bay to cover weaknesses. The opponent does not understand this idea.
Terrible move. Now terrible weaknesses will be created. White is clearly worse, so he should not help the opponent by advancing pawns and worsening his position. Let black do the work to try and gain something.
The Trompowsky: not an opening I know very well.  I do have a 1998 book by Joe Gallagher on it but not only is it somewhat out of date but I haven't studied it very well, so this is a learnign experience for me.
I got into trouble in a recent Gameknot game against 3. h4, so I was glad not to see that.  Gallagher comments that "3. Bh4 used to be the main line but has been discredited somewhat in recent years".  As the game went on, I found this bishop to be a major thorn in my side as it severely inhibited my development.
Finally, I decided that I had no choice but to play this, even though I wasn't very happy with it.
The logical recapture, opening the f-file for rook action and keeping Black's pawns locked.
White gives up his wonderful B to take the N that threatened his Q.  While waiting for this move, I was busily considering whether White could actually afford to sac his Q rather than play this move: eg 19. exf6 Nxg6 20. f7+ Kg8 21. fxe8=Q+ Qxe8 22. Raf1 but I couldn't quite see how White could force home such an attack.
hi this is an interesting game which, though I happened not to win an apparent winning game, gave me the opportunity to win my first tournament.
my favorite attack... I should think about developing it when I play someone who does not know me, but find out another scheme with people who know me.
retiring from the battlefield to compose on the other side. We'll see my knights played a good part here.
I think this gave me the opportunity to block this side for a while. I'd pose this as a first mistake from black
But... black considered it... And this is the second mistake here, as the knights are very naughty pieces...<n>computers proposes: 20.	b5	dxc5  21.	d6	cxd6 22.	Nxd6+	Kg8  23.	Nxb7	Rac8 24.	Bc4+	Kh7 25.	Nd5	Nxd5 26.	Qxd5	Kh6 27.	Bxc5, but is black forced to play dxc5?
dangerous choice, but I was scared of a Ne3-Rg2 continuation.<n>Though the computer estimates this is my first mistake and proposes: 29.	d6+ 	Kh8 30.	Rh1+	Nh4 31.	Kc2	Rg2 32.	Rag1	Rf2 33.	Kc1	Qg6 34.	Nxd7	Nxd7 35.	Re1	Bf6 36.	Rh3<n>this time, i have to admit that I really did not play well... maybe this was the turn of the game.
maybe should have done this for a long time.
gosh, this is a beauty! Congratulations to ataka.
I considered for a moment Qa2, but I thought it does not lead to nothing and the f-pawn is too dangerous. Actually, it was the best shot
uncommon variation?
? gxh5 would have saved a bit longer I guess, however, after Qxh5 it's lost soon anyway
only move was Nf6, defending h7, however the game was already lost anyway
It is this move that really identifies Black's opening as a Czech Benoni (named for the Czech masters who explored it - Hort, Jansa and Kavalek).  Black has in mind to exchange this bishop for White's c1-bishop at g5, given the chance.  The downside is that the thematic break, ...f5, will require considerable preparation to bring about.  This preparation is likely to involve playing ...g6 so as to recapture on f5 with a pawn.  Though Black's manoeuvres are often slow and tortuous, it transpires that it's not so easy for White to take advantage of this.  This game turns out to be in its early stages a good demonstration of the respective strategies, but, later, also of what can happen if Black mistimes his thematic break.
Developing with an apparent gain in tempo.  But Black's response is to place a knight precisely where Black wants him.  The pin is no real inconvenience to Black...
(!) Opens up the b1-h7 diagonal for the Q and B already aligned thereon. White wins a pawn, but also has a strong attack.
(?) Relatively speaking, a disastrous move.  But as  Black was already in serious trouble, it really just accelerates his downhill progress.  21...Nxe8 lost at least the exchange (22.Bxf8), and 21....Qxe8 22.Nxf6 was even worse.  No wonder the rook capture would have seemed the least of all evils...
Slender though it is, Black's best hope... Places an extra defender protecting g7, and the h7-square is also protected.  Too bad about the rook...
Qd5 would win the rook, but this is also nice, it win the queen and a rook (example - Rxf8, 27.Rxf8+, Kd7 28.Rxe7+,Kc6 29.Rxc7+ and Rxa8.)
Hi all, here is a little gamelet from about when I first started chess - maybe a month later. A little informal blitz tournament, which came after a coaching session. I had the misfortune of being paired against a good friend of mine in Round 2...for his sakes, I'll call him N.N. (I'd just like to make it clear that this game is for entertainment value only, as with many blitz games!). Anyway, onto the moves...you can see how old this game is, as I was at the time playing 1.e4.
Forcing Black to waste a tempo with his knight had not occurred to me, for the simple reason that at the time I had no comprehension whatsoever of the value of time (i.e. number of moves) in chess. However, my favourite activity was using the underestimated pawns to shove my opponents' pieces around. Knights are particularly susceptible to this, as we are about to see.
Yay! Gaining space with tempo, and my opponent's silly horse has to leap out of sight.
Let's see how far we can advance our units with tempo.
Time to develop a few pieces behind the broad shoulders of my powerful central pawns. Even I had to be content with a pawn centre as dominant as that. It wasn't that I saw that 7.c4? a6 8.Ba4 Nxc4 loses me a pawn...it just didn't occur to me to play 7.c4. Good thing, really.
Maximum development: we strive - of course - for Nge2...<n><n>In fact, we have switched to Queens Gambit, where dxc4 is met with Bxc4...<n><n>5. ... Bb4 is going to be very demanding, for black; this is no Nimzo...
Blacks first real mistake... After 15. ... d4, white has lots to prove...<n><n>But this is blitz...
Not an uncommon opening. The idea is to get the KBP forward before planting the KN on the natural square, enabling this P to participate in a K-side thrust. And of course to veer down less explored paths than, say, the Queen's Gambit or the Ruy Lopez.
This opening is almost a mirror reflection of the English Opening. In that one, White plays P-QB4 and N-QB3, focusing on the light squares in the center. Here, White's focus is on the dark central squares.
I wasn't expecting Black to so willingly give up a minor exchange.
Time to focus on completing my development.
OK, development is finished.
This tactical skirmish...
Sometimes when I look back, I do not remember the reasoning for the move I made.  This is an instance.
I knew at this point that playing someone at the level that stalhandske is at, I probably do not have much of a chance to pull off a win or even a draw.  My queen is out of position for any defense. His pieces are imposing themselves on my king very nicely.  However, I do try to make something out of this and continue on.
He replied mirror opening
This is where the noob comes out of me....There is no reason for this move. I was hoping to take the pawn on c5 at the same time checking his king but didn't see the defending knight...stupid I know!
He takes my pawn on d4
He takes my rook with his pawn.
Looking at the board now...I am down -12 in material...and I only have 2 active pieces to his 5 active pieces...how did I do it? This is the good part !!!
He is setting himself up now but he has no choice.
At this point my opponent resigns as he will most likely be checkmated in on a couple moves. Thanks for viewing my game. hope you enjoyed it...again I am new to this game so please tell me how I did or what I could have done better. Thanks!!
development
This was the losing move of the game. The best possible result for white is to let the knight go, and pray for a draw. Of course if black doesn't see the winning move, the game would be much different. Do you see the winning move?
The final mistake from white before waving the white flag. Once again, one move will win the game. Do you see it? (I bet higher rated players will see the correct move before reading any of this.)
Black prepares the attack. After ...,Rxe1; Qxe1,Kf3 and Black gains the Queen: the Bishop is the problem, how to make it inoffensive?
White is too much hungry. White does not see the menace ...,Rxe1.<n>Now the Bishop is too far away in the Black field, it could be trapped!!
Hi everyone!<n><n>I am just annotating this game on behalf of Brigadecommander (Janet) and Pitroque.  Pitroque lost this game and I am just playing through how it happened.  I will now talk you through the Caro-Kann Defense.
15. .... Nd5 - suddenly, activity in the black camp!
22. f6 - maybe Rh1 was better, at least it would have put Janet in Old Matey's shadow!
23. ..... Qxc2+ ..... aargh and double aaargh for white, his rook on d1 is a gonner.
So far this is standard Sicilian Dragon play.
? This is a novelty in my database. Most usual is nf6.
Three pieces in the center. Black has none.
He resigned understandably. My opponent is probably very good, however if you play a new opening make sure you know a lot about it. Not just moves, but plans and ideas. That way when you're opening memory runs out you know enough to still be working toward your goals. Also in correspondence you can use a database, which using will also help you in otb games. Thank you. And yes, I've lost one game which ended my 17 game win streak. And to be blunt I am not annotating it (for a while, maybe later), because it depresses me.
This game is the main claim to fame of both Hamppe and Meitner, and has been reprinted widely. The variation of the Vienna Game it uses was named the Hamppe–Meitner Variation in honour of the two players. The game was played in the 19th-century Romantic style, in which rapid development and attack were considered the most effective way to win, where many gambits and counter-gambits were offered (and not accepting them was considered slightly ungentlemanly), and where material was often held in contempt. These games, with their rapid attacks and counterattacks, are often entertaining to review even if some of the moves would no longer be considered the best by today's standards. In the game, Black sacrifices huge amounts of material to drive the white king to his back rank and attempt to force checkmate, but White spectacularly manages to force a draw by perpetual check.
So the game start conventionally enough.
This is the Vienna Game, an opening which Hamppe made major contributions to, giving his name to two variations in the Vienna Gambit.
Black checks.
Black checks.
Black takes, with threats.
With a draw by repetition.<n><n>Many thanks for reading, hope you enjoyed this merry romp! Please rate this annotation on the star system, and leave a comment or two to let me know how I am doing!
1. c4  English opening<n><n>I like it because of all the transposition possibilities. Since Sicilian is my game, reversed Sicilian with 1. ... e5 is even more so with an extra move.
This is a standard response to Nf6.  I'm not afraid to play a Queen's Gambit game if necessary.  In fact, sometimes I prefer it.  I guess it depends upon my mood.
This is an interesting but good reply.  This transposes the game a third time into a possible Benoni.  In fact, Benko's Gambit is sometimes thought of as a Benoni.  But really, Benko's Gambit is truly a separate kind of animal that deserves respect on its own.  <n><n>I generally don't play it as Black, because it is difficult to win against proper play.  Playing it for drawing purposes is OK.  <n><n>Yet, it is a very tricky opening.  It has great surprise value against the unprepared. Computers often make mistakes when analyzing these games.
It is dangerous to not accept the pawn.  Take it every time in this position.  <n><n>At least that is my advice.  Some authorities claim  4. Nf3 is possible.  I don't buy it.  I've tried it and have been burned big time.  <n><n>****<n><n>Alon Greenfeld Vs. Judit Polgar 1989 (0-1).  Alon played 4. Nf3 instead, and Judit Polgar won.
Black has already gained tempo for the sacrifice of the pawn.  Apparently pawn positions later in the game tend to favor Black too.  So White must play accurately.  Development is priority. <n><n>Thus 6. Nc3 is sound.  A rare alternative is 6. g3; it is also playable.
It turns out that Black has made the Bishop exchange for naught.  White is clearly about to catch up with Black in development.
Black still has the initiative, but is minus the pawn.
This combination only gives back a single pawn to Black.  Granted, the taking of the pawn had to be part of Black's strategy; but here, it is not nearly as effective as it is normally thought to be. <n><n>****<n><n>This resulting pawn structure is different than the usual favorable formation for Black in the Benko's Gambit in a couple of crucial ways.  First, Black's c passed pawn is not supported by another pawn.  It is just as isolated as my 'a' pawn.  That makes it vulnerable to attack.  Second, I have an advanced d pawn that can now operate as a crucial lever for White against Black!   The move d6 could easily serve as another break for White.
It is only a drawn out exchange of the minor pieces and rooks.  Black is following the idea that once the recovery of the pawn occurs, then it is time to exchange down into an endgame. He is probably looking for a favorable Queen exchange to seal a fleeting advantage in that phase of the game.
When the white rook takes the bishop, it will guard a2.
At this point, I'm beginning to feel a slight advantage in favor of White.  I had some control over the initiative.  But I don't think it is quite enough to win the game.  I would be happy with a draw.
I can force the draw easily in this position by exchanging the minor pieces.
My first official game with this variation, earlier I played 3.exd5 exd5 4.c4 but I switched to this variation because I often had trouble keeping my isolated d4 pawn and didn't think it offered much opening advantage to White.
Forcing either a retreat or an exchange which yields me the bishop pair, but at the cost of a weakened queenside pawn structure and a tempo for development. In this case the exchange is by far the most often played, in the 4...c5 line Black has the option of choosing the sideline 5...cxd4!? 6.axb4 dxc3 and now not 7.bxc3?! but 7.Nf3! with good play for the pawn.
!? A rare line, far more common is 6...c5, striking immediately at white's center. After some research I found out that the idea of this line is probably to play ...Ba6, exchanging White's strong Bishop for the 'French bishop' which is often a problem for Black, but considering the continuation of this game I'm not quite sure if Black was aware of the plan in this opening.
I was out of book, but I decided to continue with what is considered the main line in the normal ...c5 variation and which is the most principled move in the position. According to the DB's this is also the main line here. It strikes at Black's g7 pawn and sets up an attack against the Black kingside.
The most played move in this position, but according to my coach this is a bad place for the knight, because it does nothing except for blocking off the Queen's way to g7. But probably Black can't let go the g7 pawn in this variation, because he doesn't have the quick counterplay like in the main line Winawer. Other moves would not be very good: 7...O-O is just castling into the storm, 7...Nf5 invites 8.Bd3 attacking the knight and threatening to remove the protection of the g7 pawn with 9.Bxf5 exf5, 7...Kf8 takes away Black's castling opportunity so the rook won't get into the game very soon and 7...g6 is just a weakening move. All in all I think this was the best move in the position.
Probably Black tried to relieve the pressure by exchanging queens, but a strong attack is also possible without queens, as is shown in this game...
?! My only inaccuracy of the game, according to the computer. I realized just after I made this move that I could have taken on h7. Still this move maintains pressure and adds an extra piece to the attack, so it's not disastrous or anything...
? Somehow Black seems not to realize his h7 pawn is hanging or is thinking he can get enough counterplay for it, but 16...h6 was really the only good move in this position.
! A very energetic and strong move. Black is virtually lost now.
Another tactical blow which also wins the knight on e7 as the rook has to go away. After this Black resigned. I do think Black played below his rating, but nevertheless this was a very pleasing win, especially given my inexperience in this opening. I scored 3.5/8 in the tournament, with 1.5/5 against the 1700+ opposition (which could also have been 3 points) so I was very happy with my performance overall and my play. This was the highest rated opponent that I have ever beaten (excluding a simul in which I beat an IM, see another annotation of mine). Thanks for reading, feel free to leave some comments.
This opponent plays extreme defence.
Waste of time, but... how to exploit it?
White is playing very easily, and I don't find a way to break in.
No rush this time. This prevents Ng5.
It was a won game, wasn't it?
If BxN, Rxc3, and one of my B is gone. I'll grab a5, but he a7... no deal.
Playing with his pawns...
I'll try this way, but it smells like drawn.
and the WK has the opposition...
...and... can you believe it? My opponent resigned!
the Ruy Lopez Pirc, in this line the game assumes a structure and development very similar to those occurred on an open game... the Pirc was just a decoy!
now if Qxd8 Kxd8 and next maybe Bc4 or Bg5, has of now black has equalized, with an easier game than in the corresponding Ruy Lopez...
it was this or a shy retreat...
and now here it is the open column, I've managed to equalize right on the opening
with my pawns and pieces set I choose to exchange a few more pieces to simplify the game, and try to outplay my opponent due to the space advantage and activity of the remaining pieces
my opponent proposed a draw but i declined, because in this tournament I might need this game's full point, so I might try to force this into a win, easier said than done...
now I'll force fxe4 or get a passed pawn, to get three against two pawns on the king's wing, plus next I'll get two against one and eventually one last passed pawn that walks to promotion untouched... then will queen against two or three pawns with y king on e4 well within the win zone...
now will be hxg4, and hxg4, and I have the before mentioned two pawns against one on the king's wing with an assured march until promotion and a won Q vs 2 or 3 pawns endgame, this game show the importance of an overall endgame strategy and proceed to convert any positional advantage in a won endgame...
Black's main try.
Simplifying the position.  In most opening positions I prefer my bishops to my knights and so try to avoid exchanging them, but in this particular opening it's not only acceptable, it's preferable to exchange it.
Perhaps not best.  His position is tenuous, and how much can he gain from this?  A few pawns?
Accepted but white develops the Queen rather than the weakening pawn position created in the reverse in the spanish line for black.
Knight and Queen exchange complete white has the slight advantage of the doubled pawns and weakend kingside defence of black.
Kxc3 25. Rxc3 Rxc1+ is still probably better as the d pawn has advancement potential, however, this still has matching winning threats with an exchange either on c8 or c1 of rooks
Today on "I annotate a game" I wanted to start a little series. I have recently been playing around with the Evan's gambit and am trying to learn it properly. As part of this process I thought that I would annotate my games, good or bad, win or lose, and show you my thought process as it evolves. As it turns out this game was a great one to start on as I got a great position and went in for a crushing attack and was better very quickly. Doesn't always work out this way, but this game was nice.
If black plays instead Nf6 I've also been playing around with the Max Lange attack, a very similar opening in a lot of ways.
Signifying the Evan's Gambit. The idea behind this attack and many similar opening gambits is to sacrifice a pawn for active counterplay on some part of the board, relying on compensation for the pawn. What is the compensation here? White intends to castle quickly, get the rooks in the middle and somehow keep black's king in the middle to attack. Alternatively there is often a strong attack against the f7 pawn if black castles with the bishop on c8 undeveloped. So white is playing against passive pieces and a slightly airy king. Lets see how this one goes.
The most critical lines of a gambit are ones where the sacrifice is accepted. It is not considered a good idea to take with the knight, and on move 5.. we will explain this further.  Suffice to say if you are going to take, bishop is best. If you wish to decline, Bb6 is fine, and if I play game in that line I'll also annotate to see what we can learn about that position. Enough to say it is also a reasonable alternative.
White calmly castles. This must be the best move in the position, but white has given away three pawns for active play. Is this worth it? Maybe. Probably not at the Grandmaster level, but this does see play at almost all other levels of chess.
Of course. Obvious maybe, but powerful. Black must go bad to c6 or lose a piece. Black has 4 pieces that still have not moved from their starting positions and white only has 1. Black really needs very precise play from here even to have a chance of holding. I will note the computer has liked white's position for a number of moves yet but this is the one where it's best variations start giving up material for active piece play, which is normally how I determine that one side is actually properly ahead. Of course white has to play well to take advantage, and nothing is easy, but this is a very nice position.
And white is up the queen. This game is done.
And dead. I hope this game was as enjoyable for you as it was for me. A little trip down the Evan's gambit. I have some other games in this line I will be showing to you all soon, so if this is a thing you are interested in come and look in a while to see. This one went very well for white and I was winning as soon as move 11, an opening win. Even still I could have played more precisely and I am trying to get a feel of when slowplaying is good and when I need to go in for the kill. Thanks for reading and hopefully we can keep learning together.
Black played the Sicilian. Of course. Everyone does. Well, almost.
My capture with the queen is the Chekhover Variation.
As predicted, but no harm done. White has 3 developed pieces to black's 1.
This is when my plan formed. Black's king is exposed in the center. A rook on d8 supported by the bishop on g5 would be checkmate. There is the small matter of black's queen and knight - time to drive them off. It's worth noting that there are lots of things black can do to prevent this checkmate. It's risky to make bad moves that might end in a checkmate, especially if your opponent has simple ways to escape the mate. So, if the checkmate you want to play for is not a forced checkmate, then make sure the moves you make along the way are sound moves so that you don't leave yourself worse off for trying for the failed checkmate. First step, chase away black's queen. This move also places a white rook powerfully on the open d-file - always an excellent place for a rook. And it does so with a threat against black's queen, buying white a tempo.
Ahh, there it is. I didn't expect to actually succeed in the checkmate. Black could have avoided it many ways. 20. ... 0-0 would have worked, though 21. Bxf6 does more damage to black's pawn structure. 20. ... Nd7 also would have worked with no worries about the pawns. 20. ... h6!? would have been interesting, driving the white bishop off of the h4-d8 diagonal, but at the cost of further exchanges that favor white. Still, while the mate was not expected, the moves leading up to it were all valuable moves that advanced white's game, so had black averted disaster at the end, white would have been in a solid position to go on and win the game. The final position is worthy of study. It arises in many games. The triangle formed by white's bishop and rook and the edge of the board is a common mating theme. All it takes is for a piece to exist where the black pawn at f7 is in this example. The rook and bishop cover all the squares to which the king might flee except the one diagonally away from the rook. Here black's f7 pawn contributes to the mate. This triangular checkmate formation (the diagonal between the bishop and rook form the hypotenuse) comes up surprisingly often. I call it the Bermuda Triangle. I don't know if the chess world has a different name for it. Recognizing the formation is a good way to find the checkmates and use them against your opponents, or avoid them when your opponent wants to use them against you.
Now he has an advanced pawn, not good for me. It stops me from playing Nc3.
Unusual, a line of three pawns.
He takes back.
I retreat, threatening his pawn if he takes on a2.
He takes on a2.
A normal reply.
Takes the pawn.
Takes back.
Someone takes the pawn. One would think: What? But someone is smart.
?? This is costing him. There is actually a tactic to win an exchange here. It's really funny, because my older bro (he has won the British Title 3 times in a row!) didn't spot this whereas I did. Can you spot it?
The best move. He's lost an exchange anyway.
THE SCOTCH GAME
it went to scotch game. many games I played this but not on ranked games. this is my first game on rank in gameknot and first won in my record.
my mighty guard is on the game!
an exchange, the game ends here, he's in blunder. I was hoping for longer game!
Two knights game.
Preparing for an attack.
My opponent resigns.
The English opening. I couldn't find any games that my opponent previously played so I didn't know what he would play. I had prepared an opening for e4 and d4, but not for c4. I don't know the theory behind it, but it's a pretty interesting opening.
So far every move has been quite natural. The mirror match up apparently turns bad for Black somewhere along the line, but I didn't know this at the time of playing.
I raise a question mark behind this move. Yes it's probably main theory in the English ( I haven't checked yet ), but it feels so meek. I suppose this is because I myself play the queen gambit which of course starts with d4 and thus I'm not accustomed to the entire d3 idea.
After a long time of thinking I capture on a2. I was calculating stuff along the lines of 13. Ne1 Nxa2 14. e5 Rb8 15. Qa4 Nb4 16. Qxa7 but found that it isn't really an issue. The White queen isn't helping in his defense over there and I'll be able to win the pawn on e5.
Targeting the rook on f1, however I think this is a mistake. Not only was Bxe4 probably better, but maybe I could have just played Nxd3 here. I didn't go for it since I was a little scared off creating a weakness on the g-file, but looking back on it this isn't that big of a deal considering the limited amount of pieces White would have left. I also would be up 2 pawns, meaning an easy endgame.
I probably would have played Bxg2 to avoid f5 being played with tempo, but this is fine too. I understand that he wants to keep his central presence as it's one of the few things White has going for him.
I played this move far too quickly, convinced that b4 wasn't anything to be scared of. 24. bxc5 gxf2 25.cxb6 doesn't look too horrible after all since Black's pawn is so close to promoting.
Capturing my knight. I had lost most of my spirit as I saw 20 minutes left on my clock. However it occurred to me that nearly all of White's pieces are in the same area and aren't capable of protecting the king. I start calculating the rooksac. Of course I would have to chase him for quite a while, but as long as I could chase him all the way over the board, I was confident to pull something off. A gut feeling so to speak.
Not a bad move, removing my pesky bishop but White is already hopelessly lost. I think his king being in check every move since move 26 ( with the exception of move 34 where I win a queen ) says enough about how hopeless the situation for White is.
I decide to just win material. After a short think I couldn't find an immediately forcing checkmate.  Having a queen for his rook in an endgame should be easy enough to win.
And with this the game ends. It was a close one, closer then I dare to admit. I'm really happy that I found Rxf3 over the board. All the moves before that, however were questionable at times. The tournament is almost nearing the end. I just need to play one more game against someone with a similar rating. After having hard matchups every round it seems they've finally taking mercy on me and let me play similar rated opponents.
The Scandinavian. I'm not totally disappointed of it, in its new version if (!?) Icelandic Gambit.
No, let the Icelandic gambit aside, and play "normal". This move is not good when white can go c4, but in this position it seems harmless.
The spare tempo that helps black to catch up somewhat in developement. <n>I had to decide here if e6 or e5. Both are possible, and it is not clear to me which is better. The decision has to be made in a number of similar position, so it is not easy to address. c5 is aggressive, but also blocks black's own pieces from an useful square and diagonal. e6 is more solid, and goes for a quiet game. Slighlty too defensive for my taste, but hey, I'm playing black against a 1900+ so...<n>Besides, in both lines, the idea is to resist to Nh4 with Bg6, that is, accepting to have it exchanged to absorb the force of the white's attack and opening an useful semiopen h column.
This brings a rook on a vital column. White's queen has not it easy to move if white insist in not playing c4.
Well, this is known. You know, I don't have to worry because of Bxa2, because after b6, I win it for two pawns. My king gets exposed, but white has not it easy to get serious attack (?). Anyway. The right thing to do is to take advantage of this move to complete my developement.
Interestingly, white offers an exchange sac (Ne3, NxR). I was unable to see if was safe, but I doubted it. Anyway, exN is good for me, so...
A second pawn lost for nothing. The game is lost.
Let's fight.
Now my game is to push the a pawn. I better have the king around it - it won't get on time on the kingside.
Ra2, a5. A this point, I lost my cool blood, and I didn't see the next white move, so I played...
I have no time to put my rook on the c column to get a free promotion.
Let's make him nervous. My pawn queens with check ;-) This cat is hard to kill, isn't it?
! this is effective repositioning of the knight; will force black to exchange his main defender of the kings side
If black takes rook, Qf6+, Kg8, Rg3#
Black resigns with mate looming. Sharp & powerful game for white.
He surrendered at this point. I was a bit worried at parts in the game, but I managed to turn it around. Had he continued, I think it would've gone Ke7-f7, Bb4-d2, Rh6-g6, Qc8-f8 for checkmate. Moving the rook in that chain would be non-ideal but it would be logical considering how my opponent plays.
It works!
This is horrible. Black should've played Nf6. Black is simply creating the same weaknesses as White, while White has the tempo.
The philidor defense is different than the customary Nc6. Rather than developing while defending, Black solidifies his structure while preparing to develop his queen's bishop.
Black's better options were probably Bg4 or Nd7. Opening the center when you're behind in development is asking to get abused, like my friend did to this guy
Black was too worried about Ng5, that he made this totally losing mistake. Nc6 was much better, since after Ng5, Black just plays Ne5.<n>Be7 also stops Ng5, but it allows Qb3!! and Black is lost.<n>Why is h6 so bad? This weakens the g6 square, and the only other piece left defending g6 is the f-pawn, so........
When you have your opponent where u want them, don't let them go. Here Baker seals off the king's escape square e6, so Black's king is stuck in the centre. If Baker had played anything but Qf7, then Black would escape back into his own territory, and his two extra pieces will become active later.
Baker says this move is absolutely necessary, otherwise Black would play c4 and escape back to his territory with Kc5.
Now White still has a direct mating threat of Ng3  Kd3 Rd1  Kc2 Qb3# Baker just needed to get his rook in the game.<n>How can Black defend? If 13...Kf5 then Baker has mate in 7 (Ng3  Kg4 Qg6  Kh4 Nf5  Bxf5 g3  Kh3 Qxf5  Ng4 Qh5  Qh4 Qxh4#) although I'm not sure if the guy saw that.
Black resigned since he's mated next move.<n>In material, Baker is down two knights and a pawn, but in attacking potential, Baker is up a queen and rook.<n>It's how you use your pieces that's important, not how many you have.
But since I didn't tried  that for a long time I accepted this time to see how it went.
I enjoyed this game because of the great comeback and it also taught me to stay away from the queen gambit. A thanks to my opponent for this thrilling game.
Normal opening.
This is not the strongest of moves, and provides an opening to exploit
Black resigned, the position is lost
Modern variation
Menacing the queen and white has to pay attention to 23. ... Re2 with mating menace
Blunder... The game is lost for black. It was suppose to enable 26. ... Re7 but it enabled white to play Bf5 and trap the black queen.<n>I think that the correct move was 25. ...Qe6.
Good move, the black queen is lost.
last book move
Black threatens to win material: a6xb5<n>Alternative variation: 9... c5 10. Qb3<n>sort of waste of tempi, but it can be usefull in case of a later ... b5
Alternative variation: 17. Qh4 Qc7 18. f3 <n><n>of course not dxc, since it is needed to deal with an eventual e5.<n>I saw 17. Qh4 but I do not really see an immediate continuation. Still white is overwhelming the king-side while all of blacks remaining pieces are cut off
Alternative variation: 20... Rf8 [hardly improves anything] 21. exf5 Qe8 22. Ne6 Bxe6 23. Qxe6+ Qf7 24. fxg6 hxg6 25. Rae1 <n><n>It's the end of the 20th turn and neither blacks knight nor blacks bishop are really developed, the rook on the a file is completely useless, whereas white just has to play f3 and it will have total domination on the f file
I am very unfamiliar, and often uncomfortable with black when facing f4 or c4. I didn't use any opening book or database, and just played what felt right in the opening. I'm not sure where we left book, but I guess it was pretty early.
Attacks white's backward pawn, and brings in the Q to the side of the board where white's king is. I think this would be one of the problems with an advance of the f-pawn in the opening - a weak center pawn.
pawn march. This move scared me a bit when it was played. If black isn't fast enough on the K-side, these pawns could eventually pawn me off!
I was expecting 21.cxd5 instead. That would have opened up the c file, and the Q would have been able to exert influence, maybe the a1 R could also join in the fun. After 21.cxd5 b6 the bishop isn't lost for nothing, because of the very nice continuation: 22.Bxb6 axb6 23.Qc6! Rd6 (otherwise Qa8  ) 24.Rc1 Qe7 25.Rxf5 and black is helpless (for example the threat of Re5).
To prevent the threat of c6 followed by cxb7 and the opening of the c-file putting black's K in danger.
Black immediately launches his pawn attack.
This game was played on the Internet Chess Club with a time control of 15 minutes.
This game appears to be dead even until both sides blundered.  My conclusion is that the opening is probably drawish until somebody makes a mistake, which might give black good practical winning chances if he knows the opening well.
Gives black a tiny edge.  21. fxg4 fxg4 (21. ... Nxg4 is not very effective after 22. h3)  22. Nb3 Qe8 23. b5 Be4 24. Bxe4 Nxe4 25. Qc2
21... Be4 22. Bf1 Qe8 23. Qa2 g3 (apparently not worried about sacrificing the pawn) 24. h3 h5 but I don't see much coming out of this position.
22... Qd8 23. Qa7 Qa8
So far the game has been fairly uninteresting: not many tactical melees but Black has the advantage of only two pawn islands vs White's three, including the isolani on c4.  I probably made a mistake in getting here ...
It's zugzwang.
Hi everyone, I'm annotating a recent game that I really enjoyed. A short game, it demonstrates the importance of well positioned pieces and how they can work together beautifully.  This is my first annotation, feel free to leave a comment..
Defending his e pawn, opening for the bishop.
Probably hoping for attack to gain d5 but what about development?
Opening for the bish,  but dangerous for Her Majesty ...
I was waiting for ... Bg4 but now it is too late!
Its quite interesting how all the pieces work harmoniously together ...
Only the queen can save the game. Hoping for an exchange but why would I want to stop now?!
If the king takes it's gameover...
And there you have it! Black resigns as although I'm only 2+ in material so far, the outcome is in my favour due to positioning and inevitable gain for me. I really enjoyed this game thankyou branneke ( I like your puzzles too!). To everyone else I hope you enjoyed the game as much as I did!!<n>Cheers,<n>Bianca
Caro is flexible to development.
This "foot pawn" denies check by White. A simple one move forward of a pawn to make the game more complicated. In Caro the game WILL get complicated at the cost of the opponent.
Pressure from the Caro formation here which started so indiscriminately. Caro-Kann is my favorite defense against e4. In a time clock face to face I will always choose Caro over Sicilian or any other defense against e4 open. Always. It works. It works most times. It has flexibility and power. It does not entrench like the entrenching French Defense (basically a blockade waiting for white to make a mistake--but I prefer attacking instead of hiding under a blockade. I hate the French defense because it is only a defense. The Caro is a counter attack.
...at the cost of material. <n>Don't ever underestimate the Caro-Kann. <n>If you never tried it you've never seen what it can do. <n>If you do the Ruy or Sicilian or Alekhine's or any other (avoid the French Defense) you'll find out why I learned the Caro-Kann from a blind man in Seminary. <n>And we were in a hot and educated Seminary we got into with four year Bachelor's Degrees to even apply.
Tipping Point = a point in the game, usually leaving the opening book and entering the end game, in which the game is tipped slightly in favor of one player.<n><n>I concentrated on gaining the advantage at each tipping point.
Is this a gain of tempo for black, forcing his knight back?
It was a blitz game and I did not know the opponents rating and I afraid of a strong move ,
and white resigned
Now black has a somewhat cramped game.
Very risky, but I was playing for fun.
And the game is over for white. Just exploring.
Is this pawn poisoned? We'll have to wait to find out, but it doesn't look immediately dangerous, so Black snaps it up.
! Instantly Black is back in the game. White cannot recapture, for then his other Knight would be undefended. What's worse, Black now has two direct lines to the White King.
? This lets Black right in the front door.
This is basically a showy way of playing ...Qf2. ;-)
Not good enough. Now Black has his choice of rather pretty finishing moves. There are at least two options.
The 2nd, 3rd and 4th move of black have 2 purpose:<n> 1) get out of books<n> 2) (may be) make me in "attacking mode"<n>I did not succeed to prove it, but loosing tempo in the opening is dangerous.
Quiet development. Qb3, putting seeds on a queenside attack is interesting.
Due to his hazardous opening, black has difficulites to develop kingside pieces.
Obviously, it is time to open lines for an attack !
This starts off with the Clemenz Opening. This is rarely played in games with people of my rating, and basically gives a tempo to black.
This... I do not know what this does. This basically gives me another tempo.
This is a random game I picked to annotate: the title "Randomly Picked..." describes how I came to annotate it, not the moves that were played :-). Anyway, White opens with queen pawn, my favourite...
The overwhelmingly preferred move in this position: the Queen's Gambit. White intends to draw Black's central pawn onto the wing and grab a lion's share of the centre.
White's bishop has a dominant central position, and is slightly ahead on development.
A weak move...I think... - I can see no reason for Black to spend a tempo on a small queen move, and block his bishop. This allows White to claim a greater lead in development.
Holds onto White's central gains, and claims a clear lead in development.
9.exd5 and White has an extremely weak d-pawn: isolated AND extended. This move keeps White's pawns together and puts a powerful knight in the centre - an outpost, as no Black pawns can attack it. Am I overrating the power of a minor piece in the open centre?
A provocative and risky move: weakening the knight outpost, but gaining space in Black's side of the board and gaining a tempo, forcing Black's bishop to move. The downside is that this pawn is far from the defence of its other pawns, and can be shifted with a timely ...f6.
The exchanges are performed, and I see now that White's gains are not limited to a single point of material. Granted, Black's bishops are very powerful on their diagonals, but Black's kingside is cracked open, and since White retains his queen he will hold an advantage if he goes for a kingside attack. Black's minor pieces are also far from the kingside's defence. However, of course, if Black mobilises his defensive pieces quickly he will stand a good change of weathering the onslaught.
20...Kxh7? 21.Bf8+ Kg6 22.Qh6+ and Black's king is stuck in the open. Instead, seemingly ignoring White's threats to his king, Black is following a checkmating threat of his own.
Exchange of bishops
White gains the smallest of advantages here; the queen is put in a good position, but it doesn't last long.
Exchange of queens
White takes my unprotected pawn
Now White basically has no choice but to exchange.
White takes my pawn
I think I was hoping for c3 instead, which would have allowed Nd3+.  But white's good move here turns the tables for a long time.
And my threat is over for about the next 20 moves.  Good defense by white, I think.  Threatens my queen, prevents Qa3+. . . .
So I harass his pieces.  I think even Rxg7 here would give him a better game.
Again, going after material instead of playing good offense (or defense).  Nd2 or even c3 would have probably held the game and the advantage for white.  Instead he takes the knight and goes back up by 8 "points" (but of course, chess is not a game of points, is it?).  BTW, white was smart in capturing with the rook, because Qxb5 would have allowed Qe1 mate.  Hmm.  What's going to happen?  Here's where it gets REALLY interesting.  I have the initiative, so I have to take it.
Lose the game.  And I couldn't have done it without that little hopeless pawn at f4.  Of course, I couldn't have done it with some errors from my opponent.  The lesson in this game?  A big lead in material won't win by itself.  Instead of going after more material, good defense or strong offense (against the king!) is the key.  Thanks for reading.  I'm interested in your insights and opinions too.  --Crossquill
I know this kind of opening is a surprise. The moves seem to be illogical, just bad. It is not entirely so. Black won't survive a very skilled player, but it's still playable at amateur level.
This is not the wisest response, but I don't like Nxd4, c4 (with tempo). So I tried this to see where does it lead
White accepts the exchange, and true is that I am far behind in developement, and my opponent has an edge right now. But... how to capitalize on it?
This is a slippery queen...
It's ok.
Black could have plaid 14. ... Nh5 but this would have trapped it with 15. f4 ... and 16. Be2
Now black's on attack but it'll take time before it gets dangerous.
If 20. ...Bxg5 21. Nxe6 fxe6 22. Bxg5 : white wins one pawn and the black king is considerably weakened.
It's time to launch the attack.
Black has no choice (if 21. ... fxg6 22. Nxe6 and black loses his f rook.)
Black opts for an attacking move but he needs atleast two toher moves before getting really dangerous.
An extremely vigorous reply.  This looks like a gambit of some kind, and I would be really interested to know the name of this opening.
This move is certainly distracting and causes me to take time away from solving my castling problem, but I don't think it guarantees any major advantages.
Black blundered terribly here and just lost a piece.  It was a blitz game, after all.
I think this is better than qc3, but let me know what you think about this position.
I think black is playing very solidly here.  He is only a pawn down here.
During the game, this move didn't seem that critical to me.  But let me know what you think about it.
Black only has this check, and white would still have qh7+, but my king is getting really uncomfortable.
Game annotation for team benefit --
Kings pawn game
White tries to turn it into a trade, hoping black doesn't realize c6 is trapped
So c6 takes whatever it can before dying
Black saw his opportunity to have a 3 fold repetition and draw since he was down in material
Owen defense.
BLUNDER!  8. Qg3# makes for a very short game.  Variation of the two move fool's mate.
Ofcourse I missed this, what a blunder so early in the game!
The attacking quuen-side of black seemed undangerous to me, but later on it got a little dangerous
This move wanted to provoke f6, but it did not give me anything
The fight over a2 takes a lot of effort for black, but the centre was too crowded
This move wins at least a pawn, but can black lose so many pieces?
No real choice
White controls the center, nobody conrols the open file, the black king is unsafe, white is ahead in material black's pieces are well grouped and can initiate a quick counterattack. Each side has one unprotected bishop. White has an isolated pawn on the left wing.
Dama Guenièvre goes for a long trip. She'll move 7 times in the 27 total moves of the game.
?? mistake, the black queen is doomed and the game is lost for black.
Blunder, the game is lost for black. Unavoidable mate in 5
Good choice.
White's queen is potentially pinned against his king with this blunder.  Qe6 would cost white a pawn, possibly two, but improve odds for the end game.
This is a game OTB, me versus a co-worker of mine.  He and I go back and forth accordingly when we play.  This game had a few interesting positions so I figured I would annotate.
These 2 queen moves are exactly why they say do not attempt an attack with just one piece.....even if it is the queen.  Watch my upcoming problems.
I "thought" it was a good idea to help out with the pawn, but this move was my downfall.
Standard opening.
Another development move.
This was in hope that he would take with the Q. Also, it swapped off (which when winning is usually a good idea.
Nxf2 - the N is in the heart of the defense.
This did nothing. The best line was Qxd6, Ng3 , Qxg3, Qxg3. Black has won by this point.
This is an odd move. It stops Bg5, but it felt unnecessary at this point. Black should get going with developing his minor pieces - he will be behind in development soon.
I seize the centre while black has no pawns nor minor pieces control the central squares. Furthermore, this opens up a diagonal to c4 to win back the gambited pawn.
? - This is a truly terrible move in my opinion. Black already had a pawn supporting b5, and this closes the option of Na6. After 6 moves, black has still not moved any pieces! I probably would have considered Nf6 or even Bg4. Any ideas on the best course of action here for black?
?! - the aggression continues. This targets the c6 pawn should black move his knight, and opens up paths for the f pawn to continue my planned pawn storm. This is probably not the best move in this position. However, it certainly is aggressive!
Black loses his c6 pawn, but the pawn can be won back, and black can uncramp his position slightly. I didn't see the variation of black winning back the pawn.
Completing development while black still has 3 undeveloped minor pieces!
Black doesn't see it, or does and underestimates it, and targets my bishop.
! - Gaining tempo and starting to mount a potentially dangerous attack on black's exposed king. I have almost all my pieces aimed towards the black king, with the exception of my Rh8. This move wins a piece.
Threatening my unprotected bishop, but this move is fatal. Can you see the move which wins the game?
{C38: King's Gambit Accepted: 3 Nf3 g5 4 Bc4 Bg7}<n>This is not a standard annotation, it is just Fritz's analysis of variations copied and pasted (my brief comments are those not in parenthesis).  At the beginning of every relevant move a number is given by Fritz which indicates who is winning in terms of pawns, positive for white and negative for black. It is only intended to allow Luckpawn and I to have a look at our game and see where we went wrong tactically - so if you could refrain from giving it a bad rating then that would be great, thanks.  ;) The threshold for blunders was set at 1 pawn (i.e moves that lose the equivalent of 1 or more pawns have variations suggested).
(2.49)<n><n>{finishing the game}<n><n>...apparently!
For now it's all a book moves, but next will brake the chain.
I didn't saw that, but the game is still balanced.
4. .......... This is the Beverwijk Variation of the Ruy Lopez - but I wonder whether this is a good line or not in retrospect because I really do get into an awkward mess in the early part of the middle game.
16. hxg3 - they say you shouldn't exchange pieces when you are down on material, only pawns, but I have one proviso - if the exchange results in messing up your opponent's pawn structure it is certainly worth considering in my humble opinion.  White's active dsb is off the board and at least I have the bishop pair against 2 knights.
19. ............ Re2 - time to get nasty!  This rook move suddenly puts the cat among the pigeons in the white camp and look at those 2 prelates - what long diagonals they have!!
25. Rf1?? - trying to exchange off or drive away the black rook but unfortunately for white the lsb on that lovely long diagonal has the final say with ........
This bishop stays on this lovely diagonal for the rest of the game. Note that although the diagonal is blocked by a couple of pawns, there are no black pawns to stop my pawn on d4 advancing and opening the diagonal further. This proves significant later in the game as we will see.
I think I would have taken with the knight here, however I think black is planning c5, opening the diagonal for his lsb
An unfortunate oversight from black. I was expecting f6
Now I do. My opponent thought for a good while, and played...
Let's make him move those pawns. I have both B, I will get return for any pawn move.
Here I lost the chance to make this the game I wanted it to be. Bxg6 was a sure win!!!!!!!!
I though it was a funny way to propose Q's exchange, and it was. But the outcome won't be good for me, and I just allow black to recover the initiative.
...this one, with the same idea for the second time!
Now, if gxQ, Bxh5#. A real beauty, isn't it? Of course, it doesn't work, because black can play QxB+, and then gxQ. White would have recovered the B after Bc8+ (disc), BxB. A crazy position, isn't it? Now, White threats Qh6, forcing f6 and after it g6 or h7 would fall. Black threats... a lot, but not so quickly... does he? So HE RESIGNED. Now the question: was he lost? Any comment appreciated... :-)
And so we have a closed game.
So you offer me a queen trade, which would give you the disadvantage of doubled pawns and the advantage of an opened file for your queen side rook. ************************************************************** Doubled pawns are a disadvantage because they are harder to work with later in the game, when you want to break through to get a passed pawn. Isolated doubled pawns are worse, because they are also harder to work with to promote them, but more than that, they can`t defend each other. Therefore they are easier for your opponent to attack and take them. <n>*************************************************************** <n>Rooks need open files to reach their full potential. Most frequently, files are opened in the middle (among other reasons, because the central pawns on the c, d, e & f files are the most frequently traded) and the rooks move there to gain their mobility. Yet an open a-file would be ideal as the queen rook automatically is on an open file.<n>***************************************************************<n>Since the queen trade would not result in isolated doubled pawns, I felt your advantage of the opened file would be greater than your disadvantage of doubled pawns. I'd rather you took my queen, giving me the open rook file (and the doubled pawns). Thus my next move, c5 to attack the queen.
Now you have to trade queens on my terms or move your queen off of the b file.
7.Bf4! So, I sacrifice my Bishop, knowing that if you take him, I take your b pawn, then your rook! If you don't take my bishop, you have to move your queen, thus losing even more development. You already moved her twice.<n>****************************************************************** <n>Mohsen, let me make up an imaginary scene, then relate it to chess. Imagine twins, Jack and Jake setting aside funds for retirement. Jack set aside $10,000 in the year 2010 and invested it at a certain interest rate, say for example 9%. In the year 2050, his total interest earned would be $304,094.20. Jake on the other hand waits until the year 2040, and sets aside $10,000 and invests it at the same interest rate, 9%. In the year 2050, his total interest earned would be only $13,673.60.<n>****************************************************************** <n>What is interesting about this scenario, is that if all things are equal with the exception of the investment dates, Jake can never ever catch up to his twin brother Jack! You may ask, "Why the lesson on investing? I'm here to play chess!"<n>****************************************************************** <n>One of the most important principles in the opening is to try to get your pieces and pawns developed (moved out of the original square, to a more active location) as quickly as possible. If you don't, you may find yourself behind in development. It is also intriguing to know that if you play an opponent who knows how to take advantage of an initiative, similar to Jake in the illustration, you're far less likely to be able to catch up! One
the year 2050, his total interest earned would be only $13,673.60.<n>****************************************************************** <n>What is interesting about this scenario, is that if all things are equal with the exception of the investment dates, Jake can never ever catch up to his twin brother Jack! You may ask, "Why the lesson on investing? I'm here to play chess!"<n>****************************************************************** <n>One of the most important principles in the opening is to try to get your pieces and pawns developed (moved out of the original square, to a more active location) as quickly as possible. If you don't, you may find yourself behind in development. It is also intriguing to know that if you play an opponent who knows how to take advantage of an initiative, similar to Jake in the illustration, you're far less likely to be able to catch up! One way to get a lead in development is to force your opponent to move the same pieces over and over again. If you develop your queen, then I develop my bishop to attack her, forcing you to move her a 2nd time, I gain a "tempo", and you lose a tempo. One result of gaining tempo is that it gives you the initiative over your opponent. This means that you have a measure of control over how your opponent moves his pieces. You can't safely play QNd7 right now, for example. You'd lose your Queen!<n>****************************************************************** <n>Both you and your opponent have things you'd each like to accomplish. Every time your opponent forces you to make a move, he hinders you from doing what you may have planned, (unless of course if the move he forces you to make was actually part of your plan). If he forces you to make a move you did not want to make, it can put you in a position you don't want to be in!<n>****************************************************************** <n>Key Principle: Be care
way to get a lead in development is to force your opponent to move the same pieces over and over again. If you develop your queen, then I develop my bishop to attack her, forcing you to move her a 2nd time, I gain a "tempo", and you lose a tempo. One result of gaining tempo is that it gives you the initiative over your opponent. This means that you have a measure of control over how your opponent moves his pieces. You can't safely play QNd7 right now, for example. You'd lose your Queen!<n>****************************************************************** <n>Both you and your opponent have things you'd each like to accomplish. Every time your opponent forces you to make a move, he hinders you from doing what you may have planned, (unless of course if the move he forces you to make was actually part of your plan). If he forces you to make a move you did not want to make, it can put you in a position you don't want to be in!<n>****************************************************************** <n>Key Principle: Be careful Mohsen, not to allow your opponent to gain tempo, and therefore development, faster than you do.
ful Mohsen, not to allow your opponent to gain tempo, and therefore development, faster than you do.
So now Mohsen, You have moved your Queen 3 times. Take a look at your other pieces, compared to mine.<n>****************************************************************** <n>You have a knight, bishop, 2 pawns and your queen developed. The only material you have intentionally placed are the knight, bishop and pawns. Your queen was intentionally placed on b6, then she moved back to c7 and c8 where I chased her. It is good to force your opponents hand! As I said, if I force you to make a move you did not want to make, it can put you in a position you don't want to be in!<n>****************************************************************** <n>I, on the other hand, have a bishop, 2 knights, 2 pawns and my queen not only developed, but sitting where I intended them to be.<n>****************************************************************** <n>Furthermore, I have 7 development moves, you only have 5! White goes first, so if all things remain equal, white makes 1 development move, then black makes 1 development move, white makes a 2nd development move, then black makes a 2nd development move, and so on. Therefore black is always 1/2 development move behind. The battle in the opening is to tilt the scales in your favor (whether black or white). You want to force your opponent to lose development or tempo, by attacking more valuable pieces with less valuable material.<n>****************************************************************** <n>A 2nd way to force initiative in development is to develop a piece with check. The king moves, (for example to d1 or d2 on the open d file), so you queen side castle, putting the king in check again. You have developed your bishop, your king to safety and brought your rook to an open file. All your opponent has done is move his king around. Good for you!
I normally prefer my bishops over knights. This is because knights are the stronger piece in cramped, closed positions, while bishops are stronger in open positions. So, you have to consider each game individually, but generally, as pieces get traded off, closed positions become open positions in the middle game and end game. As the position opens up, the bishops become stronger and stronger. So, although both pieces are technically the same value, the bishops are my piece of choice. That may be just a personal thing though, because while most strong chess players agree with me, I've met some who disagree. So here I attack your bishop and trade. Then I will have 2 bishops against a knight in the endgame.<n>****************************************************************** <n>Also, the trade gives you doubled pawns, which can be compensated for by the fact that you also will have an opened file. Earlier in the game, I stated that the opened file was more of an issue than the doubled pawns. In this case, I feel the opposite because, while you have an opened h file to attack my king, the DSB (Dark Square Bishop) would help cover h2. <n>****************************************************************** <n>In addition, if you castle on the king side, your rook goes to f8 off of the open file. If you choose queen side castling, you have a good deal of maneuvering required, seeing how I attack your b pawn with my queen, and my DSB is on the h2-b8 diagonal. To queen side castle, you need to move your queen off the back rank. Her only square to go to is d7, which should be reserved for the queen side knight.
14. ...Nh5? Be very careful about putting your knights on the side of the board. There are certainly exceptions, but generally, when you put a knight in this position, it should be to trade it off (as I did), or make a forking attack, or serious threat, or to get to another more active position. <n>****************************************************************** <n>In this example though, you may have done it with an intention to trade off my bishop, but I, not wanting to trade had an escape square. The knight has no attack or threat and there are no active squares he can move to, (with exception of f6, where the knight just came from. That wastes time and hurts your development). To make things worse, you helped me to shut your knight in further by trading on the e5 square (15... e5). This trading left me with a pawn on e5 cutting off your knights only escape route (f6). So the knight was forever stuck on the side until I attacked him (24.g4) and you resigned.
I am considering now the following lines of play:<n>19. … Kh8 20. Rxc5 (gaining development as you move your king, then I attack your queen with my rook, to get even further development. Seeking to gain development is not only an opening theme, it flows throughout the whole game!)<n>or 19. … Rf7 20. Rxc5 Qf8 21. Bc4 Re8 22. Rc7 Ree7 23. Rxe7 Qxe7 24. Qxf7+ Qxf7 25. Bxf7+ Kxf7 26. g4<n>or 19. Qxd5+ Rf7 20. Rxc5 Qf8 21. Rc7 Rd8 22. Qb3 b5 23. Rd1 Rxd1+ 24. Bxd1 a6<n>25. Qxf7+ Qxf7 26. Rc8+ Qf8 27. Bb3+ Kh8 28. Rxf8# or 19. Qxd5+ Rf7 20. Rxc5 Qf8 21. Rc7 Rd8 22. Qb3 b5 23. Rd1 Rxd1+ 24. Bxd1 a6 25.	Qxf7+ Qxf7 26.	 Rc8+ Qe8 27. Rxe8+ Kf7 28.	Ra8 Ke6 29. g4!
You resigned, seeing your horse was trapped in his stable. Thanks for the game Mohsen, I hope this was a lot of help!
This have I oversee, too...
Qh3 maybe looks good, but too little territory for 2 pieces.
It is good enough.
There are certainly much better ways to win this position, but I played the last times very weak, so I donot give my opponent any chance to win.
This minority attack threatens to win a pawn on c4
Two connected passed pawns!
That's enough.  I threw away an excellent position in this game.
A quick London game
boomshakalaka aproaches this game with a strange opening, not sure if trying to throw me off or if he has a gameplan
black feeling the pressure castles, with little pawn defence somewhat a foolish move and looses the game because of it
only option here for black is 12.....Qa5,13.Qxg4,Qf4 - this would prolong blacks life with a queen exchange but leave black in all sorts of problems
a quick london game!!
The match continues, Remohgramps vs me. I'm black this time. My opponent opens with 1. d4 so I reply Indian style.
Interesting. I wonder if he'll trade. 2. Be4 violates one of the minor opening principles that suggests not moving bishops until after moving their adjacent knights. 3. Be5 violates another opening principle that it's generally unwise to move a piece a second time until you've developed the rest of your pieces.
Now it's ugly. Material is even, but white has two sets of three adjacent pawns, while black has an isolated pawn on the half-open e-file. Black wants to play 14. ... Bxb2, but white would reply with 15. Rxb1 and 16. Rxb7, recovering the pawn and getting a powerful rook on the 7th rank. So 14. ... g6 is intended to prevent that, knowing full well that white won't allow such an obvious pawn capture.
21. Rfe1? offers black a 6-for-5 trade, exchanging rooks and gaining the pawn on a2 in the bargain.
I lost this game, but nonethelles it was very good game, especially form my opponent's part. Thought I was leading by piece, he crushed me with infinitive check.
My opponent gaines time.
This is the main line. Now White has various options.
This is unnecessary, I think. I would exchange the pawns now with cxd6.
No! Give this position to a chess engine, and see what it says. This is so typical in the KID that it is almost automatic.
This game was played terribly by me but it shows: never let your opponent get a queen in the endgame! e4 - Standard move.
a4, letting the Black Bishop out. However, most of Black's pieces are on the Queenside and White would be better attacking on that side.
g5, winning another pawn. White is playing this game well from two pieces for a pawn up.
Now that the King is on g5, Black can try this line... Rxf3, exg3 and the pawn cannot be stopped, although both sides get Queens. I think this is a win for White however.
Black has no checks, but...
Qc2 !! If the King takes, it is stalemate.
He makes another central advance. This is similar to another recent game I played, against the lovely penelope80, but in that game she played d5 earlier, so I didn't have to worry about black doubling my c pawns with BxNc3 as I could always undouble the pawns by exchanging on d5, and so I was able to develop my Ng1 to the more active square of f3. For this reason, I think the move order played by Mike Williams is better.<n>http://gameknot.com/annotation.pl/real-time-game?gm=61234
He takes with check. I thought long and hard about which piece to recapture with here. Eventually I played......
He is now threatening exchanges ending up with him winning a pawn on d4. This seems to me to be a strong developing move, but in fact in the opening databases I have, black has played 8....cxd4 here.
He takes back.
He also completes his development. OK stop. Bearing in mind white wants to win this game, what do you think is the best move for white?
Did you consider this move? I don't think it leads to advantage for white, but it causes black problems, which thankfully my opponent did not meet in the best way. I also considered 18. Nb5, but realised it is easily met by Bxb5 19. Qxb5 Nf3+ 20. gxf3 Qxf4 with advantage to Black. Computer seems to prefer 18. b4.
So he takes.
Of course! Qxe5 loses to Nxf4!<n>At the time, and during the post match post mortem, I liked Re8 here - I thought it drew for black after, say Re8 21.	Bxc7	Rxe2 22. Bxd5 Bxd5 23. Be5 and black can't take the Be5 as his own back rank is weak, and this seems a very drawish opposite coloured bishop ending. However, computer prefers the move Black actually played, and prefers White after 20.....Re8 21. Re1!
With the threat of 24. Qf5, forcing g6, when 25. Qf6 mates.
Bxc4 also wins of course, but this is quicker.
And Black resigns. Many thanks for reading, please rate the annotation on the star system, and leave a comment or two, to let me know how I am doing with my annotations! Until next time dear reader!
Sicilian Defense, black's most common and highest scoring reply. Known both for its dynamic games and high following among top players, the Sicilian is often the defense for people who love aggressive games, and don't mind studying a lot of theory
The most common moves here are 3. d4 (The Open Sicilian), and moves like 3. Bb5+ (The Moscow Variation), however my opponent played this Bc4 move. I always see this move, yet I feel it's basically handing Black equalization, as Black can usually build up a nice center with ...e6 and ...d5 to follow (which would also kick the c4 bishop with tempo).
I ignore it this time, and finally play ...d5
Opening up the c file, and the position in general. This is always good when you have the bishop pair, as bishops thrive in open positions, whereas knights love closed positions.
I played this partly because this was a timed game and I couldn't think of any great squares to move my Queen to on the spot. Besides, I figured the prospects I already had should serve me well enough.
My LSB wasn't finding any good squares, and so I don't mind trading it off for his knight.
Compare the pieces here. My rook is active, on an open file and attacking pieces. Meanwhile White's is currently staring at a brick wall on a3. My bishop has a lot of movement through my pawns, and a lot of pawns of White's to attack. Meanwhile, White's knight isn't doing a whole lot, and it doesn't really have anywhere good to go.
White's a and b pawns were going to fall, and I would then have 3 passed pawns to run to queening squares. Due to all of this, my opponent resigned in this position. I hope you enjoyed my commentary, please comment with any lines I may have missed, or any improvements in general!
I don't know this opening so I just wing it by playing what feels natural
I complete minor piece development
Now I'm almost finished with development, and black doesn't even have his LSB out. It doesn't come out until move 27.
Black's position is like a sheet of glass, if you push too hard it will crack, and if you push even harder it will shatter. In this game, it does.
This looks like it wins back the pawn but it doesn't.
And bam! Black's position has cracked badly, I have an open file to his king.
IT SHATTERS!!
White is not looking for an end game but black makes a mistake.
This game marks my first victory against a 2000+ rated player. It was an interesting Sicilian defense which tested both my tactical and strategic skills. Any advice or comments are greatly appreciated.
Logical moves have been played so far. With d4, white plans to dominate and attack the center while I will continue natural development until I see which side of the board white chooses to castle.
All part of the main variation. With the swift development of the queen side, white aims to castle on the queen side and look to push through the black's king side with a pawn storm.
The first deviation from the main line. This knight exchange benefits black because it gives more time and space for queen side development.
basic opening
queens gambit ( played this a few times.... got a feeliong he'll take this )!!
i suspect this is to protect pawn whilst keeping pawn defense intact
not at all what i wanted traps my knight. This has put a bit of pressure on me now. I assume this is the intention. This will now also prevent me taking his pawn.
Best bet now for me is to make room ready for castleing and try to see his intentions---
Not sure on this move i think this is just to stop my pawn advancing any further
good expecting this now plan attack on his a8 rook with my knight expecting to lose my black bishop and pawn on levelling then points and opening up the game
Not much of a choice, but I choose to exchange.
He takes with the queen - the best move to avoid doubled pawns.
Seeing this, this early queen check also forks the b-pawn.
I don't see why this move was played.
Of course, I didn't like Nb7 as it looked rather odd - so I opted for an exchange of B's.
Opening the e-file.
And black resigns here, thinking that after Re2 or Nf4/h4 he is doomed. But, other than the poisoned pawn, well played jagroop52. And I hope you enjoyed the game to. @oodle3.<n><n>EDIT (30/12/14): archduke_piccolo is right - white resigned, not black.
...this move wasn't in the GK opening database. Main line was 2 c4, with some alternatives and this was not one of them. I responded with...
White helped me, with this passive opening.
Now I am the one that threats the white diagonal, and the nasty knight is mine. Look: incredibly enough, it is not that easy for him to defend d3! It just lacks of a minor piece behind it! Let's see what he does.
it
So I lost my beloved d4 pawn. Probably, with accurate play, I could have made much harder for him to take it, but... I like the Rc1, too. What I don't like is the weak d5, my king and his rook, all lined up...
No, I'm not trapping the rook, I just want to stay calm and exchange it so to avoid possible tricks. A pity, in a timed game this position deserves more accurate calculations.
Of course, the b pawn is my great secret weapon, and he doesn't want to let me use it. (For beginners: funny, isn't it? My rook's actios is blocked by my own pieces, so the ONLY way I have to break into white's "fortress" is with the "b" pawn - even if helped with the rest of the pieces. Great frustration comes when you are up in material and you lose... you always have to identify the "unbalancing" piece of manouvre of a "won" position, if you want to cash the full point. I fail in it often...)
1. ........ Nf6 - the most popular reply to d4.  This game seems a non event, but a decoy tactic at the end livens it up and I hope will whet your appetite for the tactical melee game against patzerblitzer.
Team Match. Having played an awful lot of Sicilian Defense lately, I decide to take a break and try the Open Game, letting my opponent pick the opening. Probably unwise, but I felt like I needed a break from Sicily.
My Ruy Lopez. The opening I prefer when I'm white, but now the shoe's on the other foot. I fear I'm about to find out the hard way why I like this opening so much as white. I respond with the Morphy Defense.
The Exchange Variation. I don't favor this myself, so let's see where it will lead.
5. 0-0 is sometimes called the Barendregt Variation (what is it called the rest of the time?). 5. ... Qd6 is considered the sharpest line and prepares to castle queenside.
I was feeling pretty good about this game right about now. A pawn ahead and a solid position. Let's try to exchange the big guns and win the endgame.
This seemed quite equitable to me at the time. White's queenside pawns are ruined and black still has a 3-2 kingside pawn advantage. White does gain a passed pawn in the center, but it is easily attacked.
21. Qf3! is powerful. It pins black's knight on e5 and it puts a lot of pressure on black's pawn on f7, tying black's queen to defend two different directions - always a danger. Even worse, black's backward pawn on a6 is also in danger, though it is adequately defended, but black is defending it with a queen and a rook, two pieces that should have better things to do. Black's plan is to play 22. ... f5 to defend the knight and eliminate most of white's threat down the f-file.
26. Nc2! is an amazing move. So quiet, yet so powerful. White leaves his rook on a5 hanging, free for black to gobble it up. Sure, white gains black's knight on e4, so black only wins the exchange, but there seems no other threat. So I looked deeper. No way my opponent gave up the exchange for nothing. The knight on c2 attacks b4 and keeps the black king from using that as an escape route against the checks to come. I quickly realize that white is about to win black's queen and knight for the cost of two rooks, and that I have no way out of it. Not taking the rook on a5 is worse than taking it.
Main line philidor defense.
Black makes this move centering his knight with tempo, however it is very vulnerable to being trapped with c3.
It's hard to miss how completely undefended the light squares are for black.
This is the Alekhine Defense for those who are not familiar with it.<n><n>In many top-tier games, the key square is d5; whichever side that fully takes control of d5 is generally considered to have the advantage. My moves will reflect upon the aforementioned, but my opponent in this game does not do the same.<n><n>Viable alternatives for Black are e5, d5, e6, c5, or any other "proved" opening.
This is not the best move because Black gets a development lead after 2. ...Nxe4 3. Bxf7+ Kxf7 4. Qh5+ g6 5. Qd5+ d6 6. Qxe4. At this stage, White's pieces are chatting on the back rank while Black already has a semi-secure king and lines for his pieces to develop. In addition, a Queen in the center is not a good thing.<n><n>When I played this move, I wanted to see what would happen. In tournament situations, nine times out of ten I would play 2. e5.<n><n>Viable Alternatives: e5, Nc3, and others which are proven.
This move takes control of the center, seals up the imaginary exposed diagonal, an prevents most future movements of the Black f4 pawn. In the King's Gambit and other similar openings, this move is infrequently omitted.<n><n>Viable Alternatives: d3 and d4 possibly
This is an excellent move as it prepares for a defended f5 pawn push. This push will retreat my knight and the king-side pawns will eventually smother White.<n><n>This would have been an excellent move under different circumstances in a different game. As of now, this is a blunder as it lets me checkmate in two ways.
I chose the foreman, winning the bishop.<n><n>I understand that this was not the most instructive game due to the four mistakes Black had played in succession, but for novices, this game might teach a little about the opening and center control.<n><n>For more advanced players, I don't think this helped too much, but more experience leads to stronger play, right? I hope you all enjoyed, and a belated Happy New Year!
Strange decision to play this move. For instance, all white has to do is to capture on c4 with the bishop, and he has already the threat Qb3. The light squared bishop is poorly placed. In this opening, we will see that simply following the fundamental(and mistakenly called "beginner" or "basic") principles, we can find the BEST move in each of the positions quickly. Here, black should have played ...Nf6, getting the least active piece. I should also note that without any calculation, this move is not best The bishop was already active, so we shouldn't move it again.
Black has played a good opening, but his pieces are not the best in placement, and are a bit vulnerable. However, we have seen a simple, modest development of forces, so we cannot make a real criticism.
Now black has a great game, since white has not taken the key moment. He already has a threat.
I would not have played this move. It weakens the kingside light squares, and is just making too great of a concession on the kingside. At least, if a kingside weakening is called for, play h3 instead, and Bh2+ gives black nothing.
Good idea, and black already has snatched opening edge, at the very least equality.
When there is a contact between the pieces, we should keep it up unless it gives us a real tactic. Usually, releasing the tension gives the opponent activity. Now black has lost his defensive knight on the kingside, while white has freed himself nicely. Black should have played Nbd7.
I don't think the rest of the game needed an annotation-Black slowly converted his advantage.
Hi everyone!<n><n>This game was played nearly two years ago against my mentor, Ionadowman.  It has only been now that I could bring myself to annotate it as I was the victim here.  Some mistakes stay in the memory for a long time.  I had almost forgotten that game until my buddy Bob Jacobs lost big material in a recent game (which I will be annotating shortly as The Perils of Giving a Check) against me because he was lulled into a false sense of security by giving a check - it therefore revived the painful memories and I thought that some catharsis was necessary to try and get this loss out of my system once and for all.  One constructive way of doing this is to put this annotation into the Knights Coaching Project Forum because I feel it will be a useful learning tool for the guys who are taking part in Master Freddy's minefield of a Knights Coaching Project Mini-tournament.  Anyhow, the game becomes a Four Knights Game.   We start with the move 1. e4 which is a common starter among players and especially recommended to beginners because it opens lines for the WB on c1 - also to the WQ who can get to h5 - although Master Freddy played the Patzer Opening against me, regicide manuals do not recommend it to beginners!
3. ..... Nf6 - this follows the opening principles of knights before bishops.  All four knights are in play so this is called The Four Knights Opening.
4. d4 - this is called The Scotch Variation of the Four Knights Opening.  It is very much like the Scotch Opening but in that one only one pair of knights are developed.  I decided to take on d4.
5. Nd5 - Ion does not recapture with Nxd4 - Qxd4?? is scuicidal because the WQ who in this instance I call the Wicked Witch of the West (enemy queen and very wicked she can be!) will drop to the black knight placed on c6.  This move is called The Belgrade Gambit - possibly because it was popular in that particular country!
11. c6 - this move drives back the lsb.  Let's see if I can use this to gain better piece placement here.
14. ..... g6 - a precaution against such a line up and indeed it is necessary to prevent Fou Lenoir being lost to Ion's pawn plonking himself on e5.  You wouldn't think this move would be possible would you?  It is when your opponent finds himself in Old Matey's shadow (threatened with mate) and has no holding checks available to escape from the discovered attack.
15. ..... d5 - this pawn is doubly attacked so it advances.
22. ..... Be4 - after a few pawn moves I get carried away with trying to swap off - sometimes it is a good thing, in this case it is a very bad thing.  First comes the decoy 23. Bh6+.
The Sicilian defence breaks symmetry by contesting the d4 square with the c pawn rather than the e pawn.  White often attacks the kingside while black obtains a queenside advantage.<n><n>Grandmaster John Nunn noted that the reason for the Sicilian Defence%u2019s popularity %u201Cis its combative nature; in many lines Black is playing not just for equality, but for the advantage. The drawback is that White often obtains an early initiative, so Black has to take care not to fall victim to a quick attack.%u201D
After the exchange, white is left with a backward pawn on the half-open d file.  This will become the focus for an attack.
White's queen has moved 4 times and returned to her original square, effectively wasting 4 moves.  During that time, black has developed all but one of his pieces and constructed a solid pawn chain supporting a centralized knight.<n><n>However, advantages in development and time are temporary and need to be taken advantage of immediately or the opponent will have the opportunity to equalize.
The exchange leaves black with a rook on the 2nd rank, where it will dominate the rest of the game.<n><n>The power of a rook on the 2nd rank is two fold: it confines the king to the back rank and forces the opponent to defend pawns with pieces.
Offering to trade the a pawn for black's e pawn.
The exchange gives black a passed pawn.
preventing the treath on g7, but opening the h5/e8dangerous diagonal. It will serve me after
So blacks resigns. I think i will experiment this funny opening for a while...
Black hit me up with the Philidor, an opening that wasn't very well appreciated in my tournament days in the 80s, but seems to have renewed vigor here two decades later. White responds with the main line.
The black pawn on d6 is pinned so it's time to charge in and make a nuissance of myself.
Black avoids exchanging queens, but white is eager to eliminate material now. This move has the added advantage of defending the white pawn on a2 that was en prise and it forks the black queen and the black pawn on b7.
OK, he got me. I try one more time, but black's next move seals white's doom forever more. After 40. ... g6, I have extended my winning streak enough, and exhausted all hope of pulling off a sneaky last-minute back-rank mate in this game, so I resign.
This has transposed into King's Indian Defense, which is a very strong hypermodern opening. Black wants to develop and castle quickly instead of worrying about the center. Space is the least important when evaluating a position. Pawn structure and development are the most important. One side can have a big space advantage, but it isn't worth anything when the other side is better developed and is solid.
White is following the rule about bringing the king to the center in the endgame, but he really overdid it in this game. The king doesn't have a role yet.
Black is helpless.
Capablanca was only 13 years old when he played this game against Corzo, Cuba's Chess champion.
Reviewing this game...maybe a queen-side pawn attack would have fit my bill. With Rfb8 or Rfc8...a5; a4; b5; b4 etc...
In today's episode of I annotate a game I enjoyed playing, we play a peculiar opening, I sac a piece for an attack, my opponent defends reasonably well, I wonder if I'm winning, and then rely on a mass of pawns to carry me to victory. In all seriousness this game was a lot of fun to play and I think shows one possible way to break down a fiancetto structure and also shows some mistakes not to fall into. This was a game in a GK tournament against a lower rated opponent and I really wanted to play well. Let's see what happened.
Not the french after all. This is already something of an odd move that I don't see very much. This is a Lengfellner system and seems to be good for white. It's not that this is so much of a mistake as it is just very passive. Black can play g7 and b7 and aim for some sort of hedgehog system or something similar, but giving white this nice center and easy development seems not to be such a great idea. On the other hand if you play this a lot as black you'll run into people who don't know how to break such structures down and can get an opening advantage from just general lack of knowledge on how to play against these systems.
don.t. Clever me. This move is actually fine and something I plan on playing. Bxh6 Qxh6 with N5 to follow is clearly not good for black so taking is kind of out of the question right now and the bishop is pinned to the rook so this structure isn't going anywhere. Any time white wants to they can take on g7 and rid black of his best defender. But if I were to do it again h4 h5 and g4 g5 are really asking to be played here. Not a mistake, but also not the best. Against this structure with opposite side castles always h4. Look at the dragon. Same idea.
This move is really as good as any. The computer gives white about a pawn up here. But it does for most moves. Even Bxh6 about a pawn. Not great but not dead either.
?? oh no. This is much too hasty and gives back a lot of the advantage that white has. Why? Because now g5 closes a lot of white's pieces out of the position. Better is g4 or taking on g7 and trying to rip open the center with dxe5 and taking advantage of the pressure and development. Not a game losing mistake, but white has gone from much better to slightly better with this move.
I have no idea why I did this move either. I just lost my Bishop.
King pawn opening
Scandinavian defence... Something Saco usually don't play against me, so this game is so much more interesting because of unexpected moves
I thought with this move it would be exchange with double pawn on F file where it would be vulnerable against knights, so I moved my expected move next...
This was my chance to take bishop and terminate 2 bishops strength later in the game where they would become powerful.
When I played this move I was thinking on sacrifice on e6, but I was hoping Saco will play queen far away
If Saco played e7 it would result in another sacrifice, but this time would be rook and I felt exciting about prospects of this game, but he moved away
It is time to move in my final artillery piece in and try to work out mate soon, especially as all of his pieces are in awkward positions
Looks like pawn check was final move of this magnificent attacking game...<n>Not because I won, but because my opponent's mistakes made this game attractive
This is one of the lines where i sacrifice my queen for 3 pieces.
? This move drops a pawn.
Getting the f6 pawn.
unexpected opening
Hi everyone, here is a game between me and my buddy dmaestro.  It starts out with a Bird's Opening 1.f4 and transposes into a King's Gambit.  This has not been my most successful opening, particularly with this opponent, but, somehow I find the best opening moves and gradually get through the middle game without too many probs and end up in a drawish endgame.  I steel myself to play out the 50 move rule, but, jury, just look at my opponent's stats and see how many games he has drawn.  Nevertheless it looks to be heading that way this time, but at the end there was a twist to the tale in my favour!
3. ....... d6 - dmaestro's speciality, the Fisher Defense.  I then play d4 which is what Master Chrisobee played against me in a mini-tournament many moons ago when I tried the Fisher Defense on him - I went on to lose that game.
6. ....... Qf6 - this move puts pressure on the f file.  All my pieces are at home.  This is about to change.
8. Nge2 - development.
47. ....... Ke6?? - with 40 moves of the 50 move rule to play out black leaves his bishop en prise.  He realises this and resigns before I play Kxe3.  It is quite easy to fall asleep in an endgame like this.  Beware - you could be in for a very rude awakening!
one of the most dangerous setups against the Sicilian. White is very clear about his intent to over run black on the king side with a quick g2-g4-g5.
The a solid but semi passive approach that develops the bishop and prepares to castle king side. Which in my opinion is risky because white's whole game is on the king side so often if black does not play accurate can get crushed very quickly. If I were playing this game I would have opted for the alternative 7. ...Qc7 with the plan of mobilizing the queen side as quickly as possible and planting a knight on c5. For example, 7...Qc7 8. Qd2 Nbd7 9. g4 h6 is relatively unexplored territory. Which is kinda weird for the Sicilian.
a very active move that takes advantage of the fact that black is playing somewhat passive. Furthermore, there is some major dangers for black in ignoring his queen side development. Especially since the most common way for black to handle white's king side attack is to create a strong attack on the queen side. When playing the Sicilian one must take on the attitude of the boxer. When your opponent punches right you punch left. So sitting back and playing "sound positional" chess usually lands you in hot water. For me the warning signals are already going off for black here because g4 is coming and black has virtually no counter play against it.
Standard move but castles into the up coming storm. However, the alternatives are slightly less successful in practice. They are ...Qc7 and ...Nc6. Perhaps this speaks volumes about this whole 7...Be7 line for black.
White is almost completely developed compared to black whose whole queen side is still on the bench.
The best way to deal with a wing attack is to counter in the center. The only issue I have about this move for black is that it deflects a key defender away from the king and gives almost no hope for a win. Black is essentially playing for a draw.
This sets up brilliant tactic on h7 in combination with Qh5.
White gives up the bishop for a very powerful initiative and advantage on the king side.
It looks like black will walk away with 2 pawns in his pocket. But in Sicilian initiative counts for a lot.
The oh no moment for black as I am sure he realized that 15...g6 fails to the 16. Qg4 and 17. h4 combination. This move leads to a clear advantage for white. Best in my opinion is to allow white to try his luck on the king side via. 15...Rd8( takes real ball to play this) 16. g6 fxg6 17. Qxg6 Bf8 aiming for the queen exchange later on. As exchanging the queens would reduce white's chances of a win.
now black is forced to play ...g6 with major holes on the king side and no real defenders are in sight.
In summary, black played a near perfect game. White just simply was able to take advantage of a couple slight oversights that lesser mortals would have gotten away with. The most telling feature of this game was the issue of king safety as black through out the game did very little to slow the white advance on the king side. While at the same time doing little to create counter chances on the queen side. This necessarily does not mean black should loss but it does mean that his life is made much harder if he ignores whites' king side overtures. It is telling that for most of the game black's queen side forces remained undeveloped. Finally, it is difficult to pin point the exact point where black went astray but maybe the line 7. ...Be7 needs to be reexamined in favor of 7...Qc7 8. Qd2 Nbd7 9. g4 h6. Another possible improvement may come on move 12 where black played 12. Nc5 going for activity but ultimately taking a key king side defender away from where it is needed the most. This is why I suggest 12...Rd8 allowing the d7-knight to come back to the defense of the king quickly via f8.
Why I was drawn to this move - I honestly cannot say, I rarely play such gambits against players, let alone computers. But I had been practicing it recently, and it was worth a try to see how a computer dealt with it.
I chose the most active continuation in what is now a rare, if not dead, opening. In a twisted way, White has surrendered a flank pawn (and isolated the a-pawn) in exchange for dominance in the centre of the board. This means that White must play positionally, or attempt to win materal back if this isn't possible. Common variations usually see a bishop on a3, a queen in b3, and the rooks firing ominously down the centre.
Not the most common line. The most frequently played is the Cordel variation (6...Na5 7.Nxe5...) With strong position for White. Instead, Black tries to fragment the correspondence between my central pawns.<n>VARIANT TREE of 7.dxe5...<n>V1. 7...Nxe4  V1a. 8.Qd5...(V1ai. 8...0-0 9.Qxe4... +/-)(V1aii. 8...Ng5 9.Bxg5... +/-) V1b. 8.Bxf7+... (V1bi.8...Kf8 =)(V1bii.8...Kxf7 9.Qd5+... =)<n>V2. 7...Ng4 V2a. 8.Qd5+... +/- V2b. 8.Bf4... =<n>V3. 7...Ng8 V3a. 8.Qd5... +/- V3b. 8.0-0... =
The question for White is, what next? 9.Bxh6 gxh6 leaves an exposed king, but needs a lot of time to generate an efficient attack, a saviour to him. Since the knight cannot actually move anywhere (safely), this move will wait. 9.g4... threatens 10.g5... with a piece lost on Black's part.
Several threats are kept alive with this move.
I have lost position for material gain, but I can now respond strongly, and try to take back a controlling stance.
My achievement so far is to have tucked Black's pieces in front of his own pawns. Since he has exchanged a knight for two pawns, you can see how the material edge is only amplified on my part by this.
After repositioning the king, it would be wise of Black to try and remove the d5-pawn.
With this move, Black's a4-rook has no valued influence on the 4th rank. Also the c7-pawn is under fire, and I now have time to manoeuvre the h1-rook.
Black is accepting a weaker position with his knight. Also, I have created a passed pawn and threatened d6.
I have been offered an exchange on d6 (44.Ncxd6 Rxd6 45.Nxd6 Nxc3). However, this concession of position would pretty much force a draw after the g7 and h7 pawns are captured, as well as the a-pawn
The checking spree has ended, and the three pawns that Black boasted are gone.
by not retreating, white has a lost game. Can you see how I can pulverize white.
this move gives up my knight, for a pulverized game.
This is an example of what not to do with a great opening.
I'm choosing the battle to be at the queen side this game. I will eventually flank all my horses to the queen side.
Now I have the horses in position for the attack
13. Why Kxd7 instead of Bxd7?  The rook is already lost.
The one work I have on the French doesn't cover the exchange variation, so it is all me from here on out, but, with a little experience in the Sicilian and Tarrasch defenses, I gave it a try.
Thematic play in many Sicilian lines involves a rook on c8, so this move develops while strengthening d5 and clears space for the rook.
White is wasting time to see how black will begin, but this is very dangerous.  Black's attack, once begun, is likely to be fast.  White is behind in development and has neglected the typical counterplay.  The only useful motive here is freeing the c knight from the defense of the a pawn.  White has a handful of more useful moves most of which mobilize the kingside.
I think I might have played the next move anyway, but this forces the issue.
White forced an IQP position.  Currently the d5 pawn seems overpowered.  White is in no real jeopardy and has some real tactical threats that can force concessions by black.  White also solved the problem, at least temporarily of the f pawn.
I neglected the threat of Nxd5.  This line is at least equal, if not better, for white.  Black has no reason to fear Nxe6.
I think this move is good.
Time for black to catch up in development and start a minority attack.
Faced with a decision of pawn or rook, I save the rook.  I am not even sure that my next move here is correct.  I think White has at least a draw owing to the quickness of his attack.  e.g. Qxg7 , Bg6, Rhe1!, Qh8.
White keeps squandering his time advantages.
The weaker move.  Kf7 creates a discovered attack against the White queen.  White has in essence given time to black once again.  Black gladly uses the time to prepare a defense of his King.
I need a defense of g6.
I think this works to my favor.
White currently has a comfortable game but has to play carefully.  Black must be wary too because the black king is vulnerable.
?? This move surprised me.  I think even if he "wins back" the pawn he is down, it does so at too great a cost.
He now must deal with a strong attack on his b pawn.  He lost the initiative and is on the defensive.  I think Re1 has been called for repeatedly in this game.  He can still storm with g4, but his King will get flushed out into the open board before he can capitalize on the weak black Kingside.
Honestly, I'm unsure how I thought he would deal with the threat.  His position is crumbling.
Let me help the collapse!  I honestly expected a resignation from my opponent after this move.  If Kc1 now, the black initiative is strong allowing black to accumulate advantages.
Much of the rest of the game was played with conditional moves programmed.
This short game is an example of the classic Bishop sacrifice on h7.
An invitation to the Richter Veresov attack, which is not played very much these days on the high levels.
The "fork" which costs the Black Queen, and 2 light pieces is not enough compensation. White still has a tremendous attack, and the Black queen-side of the board is totally undeveloped. Black resigned.
white just won a pawn here and has prevented black from castling king-side. however now black has the opportunity of developing his pieces faster, gaining time by threatening the queen.
here black resigned. after 26.Nxf4 Qxg3+ 27.Kh1 Bxf3+ 28.Rxf3 Qxf3+ 29Ng2 h3 mate is close by. so in this game white lost time and gave black the opportunity to attack. if you see the final position the rooks and knights are passive and out of place. after the exchange of queen for rooks which was forced whites position simply collapsed. but the tactics involved were a a natural result of lack of development.
White is a pawn down but won't stay that way, and has much greater activity for his pieces now.
?! -- Black helps White with his defense with this exchange of Rooks. But is there a better move?
?? -- Ouch! All Black's hopes of winning functionally evaporate after this blunder. But now comes a very long sequence of moves where both players explore the subtleties of this basic position by continuing to maneuver to win what is almost certainly a technically drawn position. Material is even, but Black's doubled pawns on the f-file (a thing created waaay back in the opening) certainly don't help.
And Black's time ran out in this drawn position.
The game opens as a Classical Queens Pawn.
This is an encouraging position full of opportunities for white on the white squares.
The alternative (22...Kg8 23.Be6+ Kh8 24.Qh5#) is obviously bad, or (22...Kg8 23.Be6+ Rf7 24.Bxf7+ Kh8 25.Qh5#) is no better, so the king is left with one choice at e7.
A coordinated effort of four pieces completes the mate in a artistic motif, where all mating pieces are hanging, and two are under attack.
Last time I played black against Jo I tried the French defence and she played the exchange variation, and should have drawn, so I go back to the Sicilian.
This is the most common reply, and the best
So she takes this pawn.
She takes.
She takes.
So white takes
It is all over now. After she takes the rook, she loses both her bishops and is queen for rook down. Funny how quickly a game can go from being level to being hopeless, with moves which look sensible and are not apparent blunders, but subtle mistakes. Bad luck Jo, but you gave me quite a fight! Many thanks for reading this, please leave a comment or two and rate the annotation with the star system.
Hi everyone!<n><n>I lost my 11th game against Coach Ion.  He won this game due to superior mobility.  Here I will show you just how Ion was able to use this mobility to convert it to victory.  I kick off with Master Freddy's opening, the Dunst Opening, with 1. Nc3.
20. Bxe5 - that black horsie of Ion's looked too well centralised so I decided to trade in Fou Lenoir for it.  This is not the end of the trades though.
This is the starting position of the Tchigorin Defence. Revived lastly by the top GM Alexander Morozevich. Much less explored than the Slav 2...c6, Queen's Gambit Accepted 2...dxc4 or Orthodox Systems beginning with 2...e6. I very much like the development of the Nc6 here as it is quite justified by the c2-c4 pawn advance wich make possible immediate pressure on Pawn d4. One drawback of this method is the obligatory investment of Black's pair of Bishops to maintain his opening goals, but Knights are pleasant beasts also in combat.
Each time in the ending that you can put a waiting Rook behind a passed pawn, do it immediately... it is almost every time the best move at hand, even if the computer analysis ater the game actually says "no". Now Black has two compensations for the lost pawn in the opening : a minor one, Bishop tends to coordinate better with Rooks, and a major one, a very dangerous passed a Pawn assisted by Rook and Bishop. Position assesment now, should be "unclear"
White must seek rapid development and coordination for his pieces because Black is ready to push a5. Castling king-side is merely forced as 16.Ke2 Rb2  is not good.
Alas, after 29...Rb1 the penetration of Black's Rook is not decisive and the a pawn is quite in danger. For the moment, supporting the pawn on the a-file is stronger.
White is also playing for a win. My opponent could have put me in front of quite a problem, if he had just returned the Knight by 30.Na3, I would have had the choice between a draw by move repetition (30.Na3 Ra8 31.Nb5 etc.), or trying to find a better alternative.<n>As I said in the previous note, it is too early to seize the b-file. This is perhaps some kind of backfiring of Black's static 28th move. Anyway, a draw would have been a perfectly reasonable outcome, because my opponent has not made the slightest mistake and produced good moves.
Trapped it is.
Here my opponent's intentions are obvious. Most likely he wanted to play Nd5 or Ne4 next turn to put immense pressure on my knight on f6. However, I catch him by surprise very quickly.
The first move in a mate in 3. White resigned here. Here are the possible continuations:<n><n>9. Ke5 f5+ 10. Kd5 c6++ (my conditional moves were set for this continuation)<n>9. Ke5 f5+ 10. Kd5 Be6++<n>9. Ke5 Bf5+ 10. Kd5 c6++<n><n>I was very fortunate to get a golden opportunity this early in the game. The main lesson that I got out of this game is that it's almost never a good idea to bring your king out to the center of the board this early in the game. It's far too risky with this many pieces on the board.
Black is proactively protecting his knight's freedom by stoppping White from pinning the knight to the king.  However white can still develope his bishop but Black's pawn move has no other obejective.  It would seem that Black has lost a tempo here.
Alas Black does not have time to bring his rooks to the Bishop's aid.  Moving the king away from the bishop results in the Bishop (and possibly the game) being instantly lost.<n>However, White has seen an openning ....
5.b4 a5! 6.a3? bxa4 and White's a-pawn is pinned, so this continuation is clearly losing for White. When I used to mess around with 3.c5 or 4.c5 for White in queen pawn openings, I soon realised this, so I used to try to complicate things and throw a spanner in Black's works with Qa5+. Clearly my opponent was thinking along the same lines. For an example of extremely active queenside play in an annotated game - my first ever! when I used this strategy as White, try here: http://gameknot.com/annotation.pl/lrr-rules.pl?gm=18725
An apparently powerful move, trying to pick up material on Black's queenside. However, despite White's seemingly strong continuations, I believe that Black can still gain a superior position. I am planning to play ...c5 and ...e5, grabbing a huge share of the centre and exploiting White's lost d- and c-pawns - products of his poor 4th move.
Ta-raa!!!!!!! Her majesty is trapped within a wall of Black's irritating minor pieces. This is truly a beautiful queen trap. I must include this in my "Favourite Games" portfolio.
White has no resistance left. He is down by a queen for a pawn, and massively behind on development - not that that matters when you're a queen behind! If it's OK with everyone, I'm not going to comment any further on this game, since Black has so clearly won in this position :-).
White struggled like a shoal of fish in a net. But I filleted his king...eventually :-). Thanks for looking at this game!
Rook is won but Black has managed to get some counter play for it.
it is strange how it happens but now it is white who has the isolated pawn. One thing this game has really demonstrated is just how weak an isolated pawn really is. They are extremely difficult to defend because you are forced to defend them with pieces.
when in the endgame trade pieces not pawn! Trading the knights are ideal for me because with all the pawns on the board my rooks are going to have a field day.
again not unusual, but this is the key piece to this trap and it happens so early in the game that it's likely to be forgotten about, which is what almost happened to me.
This also is not that uncommon of a move.  It makes sense for White because it will help him get control of the center.
This is nicely placed here but is not worth exchanging my bishop for so I allowed it happen.
Black has focused much of his forces on the queen side and has almost abandoned the kingside
This is a Latvian Gambit mini-tourney so the first three moves are set for each player.  I annotated it to try to explain to myself why this crazy opening, in which Black allows White to ransack his position early on and gain a significant material advantage, actually gives Black some winning chances.  The game ended in an interesting  opposite colored bishops stalemate, which makes the ending pretty interesting too.
Black offers a pawn.  why?  to speed his development and also, as most of the games in this tourney show, to open lines for his pieces (which is tantamount to development).
white takes
This move saves the queen and it doubles the attack on white's Bishop if the knight takes the rook off the board.
and Black has to move his king...
Now Black is using his opponent's pawn as shelter.
and here is where I believe white played into the true spirit of Black's aims in Latvian gambit - he goes for material superiority at all costs.  It was from here on out that I began to understand this opening and why Black allows this dreadful position to arise in which none of his remaining pieces are developed, his king is using the other guy's pawns as shelter, and his rook is about to be taken off the table.
Ok, mission accomplished.  Now take a look at this position.  True, none of Black's remaining pieces have moved from their starting positions, however he has massive amounts of open lines.  By virtue of the fact that Black has only five pawns to White's seven pawns, Black has open lines for his h8 rook, his c8 bishop.  And though the f8 bishop is blocked in, it won't be for long.   By comparison, White has all of his pawns in their original positions (except for the one that took part in the gambit) and his one active piece is about to corner itself all the way back on a8.
But white chooses to close off the diagonal.   Not the best decision for two reasons:  (1) since white is less developed than Black (remember, Black has lots of open lines for his pieces, even though his pieces have not moved) he should encourage exchanges of material;  (2) white no longer has his light squared bishop, so he will be unable to defend this light squared weaknesses he has created with this move (this is exacerbated by the fact that Black still has his light squared bishop); (3) By moving the c2 pawn to c3, white has obstructed the mobility and influence of his bishop.  It would have been better to simply exchange it.
Based on the errors made in the previous two notes, Black plays in the spirit of this opening and sacrifices another pawn.  This is why:  (1) that e4 pawn was simply in Black's way.  It was doing Black more harm than good.  The reason for this is that Black wants his c8 bishop mobilized to f5 to take advantage of all of those juicy light squared weaknesses.
This move opens the line for Black's h8 rook, which, although it has not moved once in the game, is as fully "developed" as any piece on the board.
Takes the rook.
takes the pawn
Black played this move with a defensive mindset - He was feeling the effects of his higher-rated opponent's endgame skills and he wanted to make it harder on him to clear a path for his queenside pawns.
takes
takes
Black does not have much time left and he's allowed his presious passed pawn to sit idle for about 5 moves!
Black refuses the offer as the game depends on frustrating Whites efforts to queen the a-pawn.
white keeps the e pawn coming.  Now Black is starting to see the gravity of this situation...
Ok - Black's pawn is in position.
Black takes the time to get better king position.
The pawn no longer has any support after Black's next move.
Black's king shuffles, hoping for a "3-peat" repetition and a drawn game.
Black shuffles with what he has left.
Is it almost a zugzwang situation for Black.
... it is stalemate!  <n><n>I hope you enjoyed my annotations of this interesting game which contained instructive errors and ommissions by both sides during all phases of the game.
One the always dangerous past pawn - which I had two of in this game<n>The power a pawn sac can give your other pieces by opening lines for bishops - in this game my opponent did not take the pawn and allowed my to get the past pawns but I still got to open the lines!!  Thanks to my friend WINECAPE who showed me this in one of his other games I will be using that trick more often!!! <n><n>This was a rematch, I was one pawn up in the 1st game when I grabbed another pawn and my opponent split my queen and King with a bishop and accordingly I resigned the game. Greed - still one of the 7 deadly sins!!<n><n>I wanted to show the power a pawns in this game in two ways.
my standard opening
I was hoping to get his queen out of the midfield, i saw the split and also saw the way out
Why not, I saw the next move and had planned for it
Getting on the open file - hoping for a check with Ba6 and stealing his queen.... Kb7 still loses the queen and so does Kd7
winning another 2 pawns looked good here...., Bd4 is just a waiste of time and throughing away more material
Here my oponent resigned
This move is not black's best. Normally black plays Nc6.
Black goes down a pawn to gain rapid development and attacking chances.
Not 12. Nxd5 allowing black to free up his position. The advantage of this move is that I win a pawn and create a weakness in front of Black's king with tempo
[!?]  Guimard Variation.  This used to be my stock response to White's 3rd move, and  I had a lot of success with it, even against strong opposition.  I did not use it to initiate piece play by a central break ...e5, but to play lines more akin to Owen's Defence, combined with a slower breakout with ...f6.  The fact is, though, that there is a bit of a down side to 3...Nc6, in that it blocks the thematic ...c5 pawn break.  This was not helped by my clumsy handling of the line during the next few moves.
Most circumspect and probably best, though it does make bit of a problem out of the c8-bishop.  5...Ne4 is possibly playable, but it is not a move I would be happy to contemplate in this type of position.
This was a new move for me - not conceptually, as I  used to play it quite a lot, but never so early.  I don't think I'll be in such a mad rush to repeat this experiment.  Better would have been ...Be7 or ...f6.
[!] This probably did not deserve to turn out as well as it did, but for the cost of a pawn, Black's pieces became very active.
At the cost of a pawn, Black's game doesn't look so bad, now.  But a pawn's a pawn fo' a' tha'.
!?  At the time, I thought this a fine move to bring Black back to an approximate equality, or only a very slight minus.  The Gameknot Engine calls this a mistake: 16… Nxd4 17. Nxb7 Nxe2+ 18. Rxe2 Qe8 19. Qxd5+ Kh8 20. Bd4 Bxf3 21. gxf3 Nf6 22. Qb5 Qxb5 23. axb5 Rae8 24. Rxe8 Nxe8 with a nigh-on winning end game for White.  But Black might have done better (after 17.Nxb7) with 17...Nxf3ch! and whether White takes with pawn or bishop, 18...Bxh2ch! keeps Black in the game.  To maintain an edge, maybe White would have to retreat 19.Kf1.  This is all very well: during the game I barely glanced at the 17.Nxb7 line.  However, I could have looked at alternatives such as 16...Bxc5 or 16...Qe8.
!  Best, I think.  18...Kxg7 19.Qd4ch Qf6  20.Qxg4ch doesn't look so bad for Black, but the pawn margin would have persisted with not much that Black could show for it.
Forced, as taking the f8-bishop would have left Black the exchange down and a lost game.
A tempo-gaining capture that for the two minor pieces, White obtains a rook and TWO pawns.  Instead, 20.Rxe2 Kxf8 =.
Now, with White to play, the game enters a whole new phase.  Time to pause and reflect.  White has rook and two pawns for bishop and knight.  According to the standard scale of values, White is a pawn ahead, but practice indicates that (R+2) and (B+N) are close to equal.  For the moment White has no real weaknesses, though c2 is likely to become one.  It can't really be said Black has any, neither.  White has a 3-1 majority on the K-side, the pawns are level, and the f-pawn is 'passed' - Black can stop its promotion only with pieces or the king.  This sounds good for White, but there is a down side: White will have to look to the K-side only to make progress, unless he can induce a vulnerable weakness on the other wing.  Black's advantage is in the flexibility - handiness - of his pieces.  Bishop, knight and rook work pretty well together.  I assess the game here as roughly level.  Maybe White has a whisker of an edge, but no more.  On the other hand, both sides have plenty to play for, for now.
To make any progress at all, White has to do something with his major trumps: his majority and the passed pawn.  This move prepares the advance of the f-pawn.
h2 is not much of a target in itself, but I simply didn't like the look of ...Rc6.  For the moment Black's minor pieces are busy closing off the central files, so choices remain limited.
? - During the game I felt sure this was a mistake, and the Gameknot Analysis Engine agrees.  The pawn become a weakness that Black's handier pieces, the knight in particular, can just about reach.  A new phase begins, with Black making a serious bid for the initiative.
Don't sell easily parried short ranged threats below their value, just because they are short ranged and easily parried.  They are often a means to an end.  The threat now is ...Rxf4ch.  Black definitely has the initiative for the moment, but can he keep it?
But there was nothing to stop this.  After the win of the pawn Black at last has a passed pawn of his own to play with.  Possibly White might, somewhere during the sequel, have considered a plan to give up his two pawns on the K-side for Black's h-pawn.  Then with the pawns equal on the Q-side defied Black to make good his material advantage.  I spent a lot of time studying such endings that might have arisen, with the conclusion that, with care, White might well have held.
66.Kd5 is the same but 66...Bg7 in reply is no check.
! - This is how to force an exchange or the win of material.  Immobilise the target, then attack it.  Well, Black's pawn was immobilised way back at move 6, but the principle is the same.  Black will have no pawns left.
At this point, White had realised the writing was on the wall and resigned.  The game wasn't going to reach 100 moves, neither - I think he might have played it out otherwise.  It is a forced mate in 6 more moves, which I'll set down as though they were played.
One of those game that I was lucky to win, with nothing much in it - maybe a slight edge for White - for 35 moves, and even when the balance tipped Black's way, it was not easy to see a way to win, even when Black gained a passed pawn of his own.  It wasn't until it became clear that White would have to give up a rook to prevent the Black h-pawn's promotion that Black's winning prospects looked realistic.
White advances in the queen wing, Black on the king side.
All three pieces are needed to finish the game off.
My opponent was crushing me toward the middle of the game when he saw a chance to snatch a pawn.  The down side was it cost him the game.
? I don't like this move I though Qxc3 would solidify blacks game a bit.
The game ends in K(rank 8) Qc7#.
9. ...... e5 - we pick up the action from here.  So far Bg7 has been found to be an improvement on this move and I will play it the next time I have black but for now at least things work out OK here.
10. ....... Bc5+ - development with check gaining useful tempo.
15. ...... h5 - driving back white's lsb and attempting a pawn storm on the kingside.  This is how far those pawns get, however.
24. ...... bxc6 - pawn trade.
The Game begins with the first few moves set ...  I think it is safe to say that it's a messed up opening.
I have never done this myself,  don't intend to..
I just don't see it, call me a moron,
MAN!  another conditional move triggered !  how many games of this has he played???!!!  I better check the mini tournament board....  and run to the liquor store...
he has a few of his own.... :-(
well this move comes as a big surprise..lets see now...Bxe4 ...Qd1+  Kxd1 and it's game on !!!!
this is all I've got...  if.. Qd4+ I have a chance....
no choice...
no choice again..  but made it to 37,  move 42 is not out of reach..
sure,  I'll go out for a handshake...  maybe i can get a dance with the bitch in the middle of the dance floor...a place she has resided frequently this game...
I have made it 42 moves,,,  what a joy,  I have lost in this tournament with each black and white,  I think I am a 1500 player in real life,  maybe 1150 to 1750 with a good bottle, depends on if i I pouring points out of the bottle into me or onto the board I guess
I challenged bobdoleeatsfood in this game who I had previously lost 2 times too. I have been playing chess for a almost a 1 year and 4 months, and I feel playing people who know the game of chess is the only way to improve upon my play. King pawn opening for me. Feel free to comment, and let me know if I make a mistake with my annotation or bad moves in my game play.
I feel black Bg4 is a wasted tempo move, but I'm sure he has motive for this I just do not see what it is.
I have to trade this piece I had no place to put my bishop. If 9.Bb5, a7, 10.Bxc6 where black would follow with with bxc6 opening the b file for an attack on my queen side which would be bad for a O-O-O. I think I annotated all of those moves right.
cxe6 weakens the pawn protection for his king but also opens the f file for rook.
I don't know if he did not see this or did not think it to be very threatening, but now 29.Qxa8 and locking down the knight.
This move is the Sicilian defense. The idea is to bring pressure on the center with the c-pawn and  trade it for white's d-pawn. White has many responses, sometimes allowing the trade, sometimes avoiding it. There are many versions of the Sicilian, some quiet and positional, and others, like the dragon (which I prefer), that are very sharp.
I think this is not the strongest move, because it blocks the d-pawn, severely limiting white's mobility. d3 is much better, allowing the development of the c-1 bishop and the b-1 Knight, which not only has both its best spots blocked, but now has no good way to get them opened.<n><n>Bd3 allows a quick castle, but that benefit is small compared to the drawbacks. That is especially true in a Sicilian, where black's development is always slow, anyway. in a Sicilian quick development and limiting black's space and development is what you want. Notice that Black's K and Q pawns have not moved yet. The white King is in no danger and has no need to hurry into castling.<n><n>I wrote a lot about e5 on the last move. I don't think e5 would be a good move here, but I do think it's better than Bd3. I'm not a master, so I can't see all the ramifications of e5, but it seems like overextension to me.
Prevents e5 and opens the door for Ne5, attacking the d3 Bishop. Making the Bishop move a second time slows white's development. In this case, however, it's probably superfluous, because the Bishop will have to move a second time, anyway, in order to mobilize white's Q-side.
I hope the idea of a training game is to learn, not for me to play excellently. This, too, might be a mistake. The idea is to get my pieces in play rapidly while the white pieces are on the Q-side. This not only frees my King Bishop, but it opens the g-file if white trades his B for my f4 N and further blocks his mobility when I retake. the g5 pawn can also go to g4 to boot the f3 Knight should I decide it's worth eliminating the h3 and g2 pawns. It is highly dangerous, because my Q-side isn't real suitable for castling, and it wouldn't be too hard to open up the e-file if my King stays in the middle.
Ouch! This move has to get a 9. g4??. The h3 pawn is no longer protected, and this plays into black's hands, letting me get the h3 and g4 pawns without the cost of a piece. I'm much more mobile, so this is frightening!
This move gets the rook in play, and it offers to trade off pieces, which can only help white. Another option here was Nb1-d2, but this further blocks off white's pieces.
I opted for this rather than trade off pieces. White can trade his bishop for my knight here, but when I play g5xf4, the g-file is opened and white's pieces are further blocked off. Right now, even sitting at its home square, the c-1 Bishop is a key defender.
The losing move. 23...Nc3 would have put Black in a strong position.
Best move.This move follows all the opening principles
So far all my moves follow the opening principles while black has broken 2 (never develop queen too and develop knights before bishops)
All my pieces are ready.It almost looks like white is in the middle game while black still in the opening
Looks dangerous but it takes a few more moves to realize the danger.
The knight is lost.
This is deadly. Queen is lost now. Maybe even the King is lost.
Black resigned as the next move is mate.
I lost here the chance to go d6 and see what happened.
Interestingly enough, the game is completely switched to queenside fight, and the kingside is left completely alone. Be aware of sudden opening by black. I have thre pieces completely inactive, by the way, so I can't say I have the edge. Let's see if the queenside incursion will give some return. For now, I avoid Qb6 by black. If b6, I'll hold.
This is the downside to have lost the exchange. This central force seems unbreakable.
Desperate. Here, black's e3 wins for sure.
Black seems so sure of his superiority... and he has good reasons!
I'll lose material, but he spared me the game.
? Probably played with the intention of diverting my queen from the defence of a7, but it was lost anyway. O he just blundered the knight!
...and black is lost. The line g5 leads to a) 5. Qe6+	Kh5? 36.	Bg4+, Kh4,  37. Qh6#, but the shown sequence is not mate but leaves black without a chance.
Hello, it is mine short lost game.<n>I always start with e4.
next time I'll take it I think.
Going for the usual style of attack in this line. However, this move might be a little slow as black won't give white enough time to mount the attack.
Opening the d7 bishop, attacking on c4 and f3. White is hard pressed for a good move.
One of the points against playing an early g4 in the Dragon Sicilian.
One of the typical sacrifices for black in the this defense. White has his pick of the two black knights but neither will bring him any relief.
I had intended 22...Qc6 here trying to weave a matting net against the white monarch but my opponent saw the futility of his resistance and resigned here.
Prepares for fianchetto, but overlooks Bd4.
Now that we are back where we started, minus a few pieces, it's time to attack.
This looks scary, but it helps me achieve my own ends, actually.
Yup. I don't normally like to make a non-checking move when I'm attacking, but nothing here worked, because the King could escape to e2. So I came up with the next move. Can you see it? It's not very hard, but it seals the deal.
Before this move, you saw Flohr variation of English Opening.
The game is equilibrate.
My pawn is dead now. My opponent has advantage.
I try to stop this pawn.
My opponent can't see my trap and make this weak move.
I won this amazing game.
Game against lanlee i felt was rather interesting and an exciting game for me. I was quite down throughout most part of this game because of how well he was playing in our other game, but was able to overcome this. <n><n>He kicked off with d4
Nf6, declined variation
c takes
f takes
e4, a good opening i admit
e6, for castling it also protects d5 in variations an annoying spacial cramp for black
bb4 check, the king is fairly exposed, the purpose of this move is time rather than anything else
queen takes d4!
queen takes..check
queen takes b2.
e5 closing the centre. this is an important blockade of whites central pawns as it gives me space
pawn takes
Qxh6! perhaps i didnt see this but this threat is relatively harmless
Kh3 white is trying to converge his pieces on the king for a final assault
exf4 is now dangerous for if white takes he will have traded off his only rook. 3 very powerful pawns on the queenside are ready to march
The Gloria Variation, a rare line of the Sicilian.
Black takes the lead in development.
Black gladly accepts the trade.
This trade leaves Black with doubled pawns. However, it further locks down White's pawns on light squares. Black will want to move his pawns to a5 and b6 to lock in White's bishop and stop all counterplay on the queen-side.
?? Now White has completely locked himself in on the queen-side. White should trade down his extremely weak bishop soon to have any chance at the endgame.
Black gladly accepts the trade.
Black is getting ready for a mating sequence on White.
ok this is not so serious, my LSB was useless anyway on c4 !
LSB entering in the game
White castles and retains a slight lead in development.
Opening the d file.
This is tactic that doesn't work.  After the game, my opponent told me that he missed the fork on f3.
This is what my opponent missed.
And I win the exchange.  I have a rook for a knight and two pawns, but my pieces can coordinate better.
Here white resigned.  This game is a pretty good example of how to play with a rook versus a knight and pawns.  I got an open file for my rook and tied his knights down to defending pawns.  With white reduced to passivity, it was relatively easily for me to break down his defensive wall.
So I played this.
It seems a good position for white... or it is not?
That rids me off of two very annoying pieces for a rook. Can it be a bargain?
Two minor pieces for a rook, but -1 due to black uncordinated pawns... who can say which has the edge?
Welcome to my Trompowsky annotation. This opponent had previously employed the Samisch to attack my King's Indian Defense when we last played with the same colors. The success of the KID in that game had me on red alert for what to expect from this encounter.
Now White enters one of the most popular lines of the Tromp. Whether the game remains open or closed (and it can do both from this tabia in my experience) the play is usually very sharp. Since my worthy opponent had previously employed the Samisch it seems fitting here that he employs a system with a similar pawn structure (f3) that is so thematic in that opening as well. This move does challenge the knight on the e4 square but it does so at the cost of White taking away the best development square from his own knight (see previous note).
This is what White is playing for when he plays 6.Nd2.
I was expecting 9.cxd4 when White has a formidable center that Black will have to be careful about handling. With the piece recapture it gives Black, at the cost of a few forced moves, an easier game in my opinion.
White is now the owner of a d-file battery. But what can be done with it?
Black accepts the trade.
Originally I played this to pin the king down to the defense of the f-pawn. But then I realized that the pawns are equal in the number of their potential moves on the h-file. This seemed a small fact but it made my next move possible.
And the game is over (though White resigned a few moves later).
My second game against my coworker. He opens with the Rat, a.k.a. Benko's Opening, which I know nothing about, so I follow the World DB with the most popular response. I find it interesting that every response except 1. ... g5 (played twice) and 1. ... f6 (played once) have statistics advantageous for white, some of them significantly so.
And now white steps completely out of book with 3. Nc3. Sure, this is a fairly rare opening, but even so, this fairly natural looking move must have been tried before, somewhere? If it's not in book, maybe white just stepped into a well-known trap? In any case, I don't see anything wrong with the move. Maybe 3. ... d4 lets black chase the white knight, but since 4. Ne4 looks fairly strong for white, I don't see any advantage to be gained, so I leave it there and develop instead.
!? no real problem with this move but I think Nf3 or dxc5 are more sound.
?! not a good move besides losing another centre pawn black will have an easy time developing and gaining control of the centre.
white looks ok. Especially, when you think that black has not even touched his pieces yet, but thing are about to change. The old master will demonstrate the power of the centre pawns.
?! not necessary as this pawn was in no real danger as capturing it would but the black queen out of play. Better is getting the knight into the game with Nf5-Nd3
The e3 pawn finally falls and Russ resigns. I think he learned his lesson, off beat moves(meaning moves to get masters out of book and playing on their own devices) does not work. And giving up centre pawns can cost you a lot. However, credit to Russ as he did have a plan and did try to execute it!
After his defeat by Steinitz in 1866, Anderssen became the most successful tournament player in Europe, winning over half the events he entered—including the Baden-Baden 1870 chess tournament, one of the strongest tournaments of the era. He achieved most of these successes when he was over the age of 50.<n><n>Anderssen is famous even today for his brilliant sacrificial attacking play, particularly in the "Immortal Game" (1851) and the "Evergreen Game" (1852). He was a very important figure in the development of chess problems, driving forward the transition from the "Old School" of problem composition to the elegance and complexity of modern compositions.<n><n>He was also one of the most likeable of chess masters and became an "elder statesman" of the game, to whom others turned for advice or arbitration...
At this point of the game, I very happy where this game was going. We are now playing into a style that I'm used to seeing all time. So I started to relax and play normal with no stress.
This is where the game starts to get interesting to me. So far so good. No mistakes are made just yet.
Black had his last chance on playing e4, instead he played Nc5, in which you would see why this was a bad move.
At this point of the game, I saw checkmate in so many ways. Now you see why I didn't feel like trading queens. At this point I hope you, especially my oppontent enjoyed my comments about this game. From here on out I'm going to let you play through the rest of the game. Please feel free to make any comments on anything that was good, bad, or whatever comes to mind.
I was Black in this team tournament game. White overextended his position, which created weaknesses.
One tempo is all it takes to win. Now White is totally lost.
White cannot defend against Nc2  without losing material. His king's position is all boxed in and his early pawn advances weakened his center. White is going to lose his rook for one of my minor pieces
He lost the game
And White takes the time to reposition his knight (freeing the f-pawn).
The position is rich, but neither side has a definite advantage over the other. In attempt to "kick over the chessboard" I followed up with...
An attempt to push forward and strangle Black. After the game, while discussing ideas with my opponent, we came up with the clever 22. Bxg6 Qxg6 23.e6 Qe4 24.Qe3 Nd8 25.Qxe4 dxe4 26.d5 creating a pair of deadly passed pawns for White.
Hi everyone!<n><n>My opponent, Master Chrisobee kindly invited me to take part in his MT called Amor Vincit Omnia ( Love conquers all).  Sadly here, the only thing that got conquered was Henry!  I expect you are wondering what the title of this annotation means.  Well, it means accept your opponent's undefended material with caution, especially when you are playing against an Expert or a Master.  It is true that even GMs blunder (remember, Messrs Nigel Short and Victor Korchnoi both blundered into mate in one - this was covered into Amatzia Avni's Danger in Chess) but it is RARE!  Nine times out of 10, if you take the offering, your opponent will either regain the sacrificed material with interest or, like me, you could cop Old Matey!  How did this happen?  Well, here is the Gameknot Analysis version: http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=16902121&rnd=0.25633523027782023.
2. Bc4 - after a double king pawn opening we get this move.  It is called The Bishop's Opening because the bishop comes out before the knight.  It can transpose into several openings, The Vienna, Guicco Piano and even, as in our game, the Ruy Lopez.
12. Nf1 - this position is gradually becoming like a middle game Lopez position.  Chris gave me the Lopez a few years ago and thumped me a few moves out of the DB.  I just hope I can improve on this.
Hi everyone!<n><n>In this game I was the exchange and a pawn up.  You would think that it would have been a gift from heaven from Freddy, wouldn't you?  A real chance for me to get that elusive victory against Expert opposition and earn myself the username TheBlackQueen.  The reality was different.  Passivitis set in and allowed Freddy to mass all his pieces around Henry.  My own pieces were fairly close to Henry but were very poorly co-ordinated in defense.  When playing Freddy and Ion I am sometimes caught between two stools, to be aggressive prematurely - i.e. to use Glenda as a Lone Wolf or to dig in and become passive and hopefully ride out the storm.  I tried to get aggressive with Freddy and put Glenda on a4, preparing a possibility of a queenside mating attack.  Unfortunately this move was a waste of tempo and Glenda would have been better served on h1 to enable Henry to get sanctuary on the queenside and to stop the Wicked Witch and her henchmen pouring in via the kingside.  I will let you, the Inquest Jury decide how I should have prevented this invasion and converted my material advantage to victory.  But before you decide, here is how the action unfolded.
8. ..... gxf8 - pawn trade.
This was the message that Freddy received from me: "Game won, congratulations! Resignation note from jstevens1: Hi Freddy, You are right. It is #7, viz:- Variation A 29. Kg1 Be3+ 30. Kf1 Nh2+ 31. Ke2 Qxg2+ 32. Kxe3 Ng4+ 33. Kf4 Rf8+ 34. Kg5 Ne3+ 35. Kxh5 Rh8# And there is an even shorter mate in:- Variation B 29. Ke1 Qxg2 30. Qc1 Bg3# I will be calling for Gameknot Analysis as soon as I hit the resign button and will start annotating this game in due course but for the record I am resigning our game on the grounds of Unavoidable Mate. Well played! Joanne" <n><n>So, four pieces were enough to weave a mating net around Henry.  Oh well, there will always be another game and in fact I am currently playing him as white.  At least until the outcome of that game, TheBlackQueen must wait.
Unusual Opening, I'd never seen this before!
but I see a weakness and begin the save my pawn
He believes it to be a mistake, and so takes...
The Queen game from my opponent, Blitzkov.
Usual for the d4 development.
Perhaps Blitzkov is a fianchetto person here on his king side.  It takes time to develop a fianchetto.
I have pressure on his d4 pawn while making a trade to isolate his "a" rank pawn. Why not?
So now his "a" rank pawn is isolated in a trade. I am happy so far.
I am playing a 14 year old. And is he smart!  When he came into GK I thought he was just an ego that needed an ego beating. <n>So I do get a trade to open up my own fianchetto (the only time, usually, I ever employ the fianchetto is in the King's Indian Defense. It is a solid defense against d4 to date).
I think it is best to deal with this....
He has to trade.
This was a pawn to take in the taking.  in retrospect I think this is where I sort of screwed up.  But not at the time....
This?
Let's see what he does....
It is so slow with kings. They only get one square at a time...
I feel by this time it is drawn for sure....
I chose the Caro-Kann opening because it develops a flank attack, gives black a good pawn structure, often with a central pawn majority, and it does not require much theoretical knowledge to play. I chose to annotate this game because of how simply the game developed, with no major mistakes by white, and no majorly brilliant moves by black, to give black a clear and easy win.
The exchange variation. This gives black a central pawn majority.
White played the opening quite effectively. Usually black develops his light squared bishop on the king's side, but white has made this impossible. His centrally fianchettoed light-squared bishop looks strong.
Allowing for the development of the dark-squared bishop. Since white has already constricted the light-square bishop on the king side, it is no great loss to block it in.
And so white obliges by opening the diagonal, when it is no longer useful for black. This exchange opens the c-file for white, but is it really worth it, considering that black castled king-side?
Adding pressure on the c-file, but it is easily averted...
Black temporarily has control of the c file
and start exchanging off pieces.
At this point black should win the game.
White was playing for a draw, but careful play by black wins the game.
I rarely play the Scotch, but my coach has encouraged me to do so, and I recently spent 4 hours of training on the opening with my coach, so I decided to play it for the experience.
This is a  safer line, in my opinion than the Scotch Gambit.
exf6 is just not sound, and retreating the Bishop to b3 is good, but it does not seem to be in the spirit of this opening. so I choose to try and keep pressure on my opponents.
Okay...this is a mistake. The King will become exposed. I am going to have a very strong attack, based on the calculation Nh6+, Kg7, Nxf7, Kxf7 e6+! Kg8, exd7 which opens the King up for an attack and wins a pawn. I don't think we need to calculate beyond Nh6+, Kh8 we all know the Black Queen would be lost.
Again...loose pieces...but here is where I should have been developing. This was just plain bad. Bh6+ develops with tempi...I see it now, but I missed it during the game.
This is the last real mistake. The King can be checked with the capture of the pawn, and White's pieces suddenly have a serious attack.
Still thinking about a king side attack and I see a potential opening and an opportunity to win my piece back ... unfortunately, I forgot that black is allowed to move his pieces
finally, I get to the king side, only down a piece and have a pretty good arsenal swinging toward the king side ... still have a pretty good shot at this game
I don't think this is the best, it allows me full control of the center
I really enjoyed this game, specially because fire works are not my strength! Nevertheless, it all came possible thanks to my opponent greed!<n>I hpe you liked it as well!
What is this?? It's the Old Benoni Defence, though I didn't know that at the time.
Getting a solid central pawn formation already. There's a definite risk to the Benoni, I read, and given the opening is where I usually gain ground against my opponent, I'm confident.
Releasing the light-squared Bishop, a piece which, apparently, struggles to find its place in this opening. Its options are certainly limited.
I can see where this is going and decide I'll have both Bishops pointing at Black's K-side.
But not for long.
I think this is a bit of a premature sortie. But it does open that long diagonal for the Bishop on g7, which is doubtless the idea.
Allowing the other Rook into the game. Black could have done this with 20...Bf4, forcing an exchange that would have benefitted him, but he's in control now anyway.
I'm hoping he'll swap, but of course he won't...
The King heads out, but it's going nowehere while my Rook controls the only open file. I've rather weathered the storm and am only a pawn down, and a Rook pawn at that. It could have been much worse. Usually this tiny advantage is enough for my opponent, but he's rather underestimated his lead. It's not going to be easy.
It's supposedly not best to exchange pieces when a pawn down, but that pawn advantage is the h-pawn, which has a light Queening square, so I try to persuade my opponent to swap Bishops...
Creating a passed pawn for myself!
Now I see Black has gone a little wrong; the Black Rook doesn't have too many options with the pawn on c5 blocking its exit.
A definite missed chance for Black.
I know there's a draw here if I get it right, for it seems Black is shaping up to block any check with his Rook...
Hi everyone!<n><n>I have a collection of games which seem to proove the fact that 2 pieces are better than one rook, even though the side that has the rook may also have a pawn or two for these pieces.  This is Example No.1.  I kick off with 1.e4.
2. ...... Nf6 - this is the Petrov's Defense, a counter-attack against the e4 pawn.
48. ........ gxf4+ pawn trade.
The exchange is a disaster for White, even though the count comes even.  Black is developed and controls the center: White is entirely not, and all his pieces are block in.<n><n>My game plan from here is to control the center, gain a pawn majority as the position permits, and roll to victory.
White makes the most of his King-side majority.
24. b5 a5 was better, since it ties down Black's two pieces.
Until this point White's attack had done well enough but the pressure is off now and Black's Knight is home free.  27. Kg3 was better and might have won the game for White.<n><n>Black is now looking to trade down.  With the pawn line strongly held the advantage of an extra piece should force at least a draw - even with a poorly placed bishop and no rook.
king pawn opening
My goal at this point of game is to get rid of the queen.
free pawn but this is my  bait for white and is hoping white would bite down on my bait
This is an interesting variant.
The first exchange of the game.
This exposes my King in a dangerous manner, but I figure it's worth the gamble to win a piece.
Now I really have to be alert defensively. The game is getting very tactical.
I still have a fighting chance, with a Rook and Knight against a Queen and Pawn. The ending is a technical win for White, but I can put up a lot of resistance.
This tactical error strengthens my position. I was expecting an exchange of Pawns, which would leave both QR Pawns isolated. Now my Pawn at QB2 can support the entirety of my Q-side Pawn structure.
Oops! It's been a very long time since I've been involved in a game where both my opponent and I blundered away our Queens in the same game. Unlike me, however, he gets no material compensation.
Whit this move, I was scared for my e pawn...
! (I think this move deserves a !)
3. Checkmate. I think it was a good game, I like to see some comments, if you like this game too, and to correct me if I made some mistakes in the game. Have a nice day.
Unusual for the time.
Not a good move, exchanging a developed piece for an undeveloped one.
Opening a line for the KB.
This Pawn snatch is horrible. The Q is exposed to great danger.
this is a sacrafice to gain development
continuing development
queens side pawns are sacrificed to gain advantage on the kings side
his queen is not in a good position
press for an advantage on the e-file
his queen has limited abilities
now im in the middle game three pawns down but in a slightly superior middle position
good defense ant attack at the same time - i need to get busy now or my opponent will exploit his material advantage
and he does - my position advantage is evaporating and a strong opponent has a material advantage on me which he is very capable of exploiting
he does of course see the possibility of a very nasty discovered check
! the best defense is a good offense
See käik on praktikas väga vähe esinenud ning pani ka Topalovi mõtlema.
See käik sisuliselt kaotab. Häid lahendusi valgele siin paraku enam ei olnud. Sellegipoolest tegi Topalov selle käigu sisuliselt mõtlemata.
Jäi see käik kahe silma vahele?
Alehine's defense, new to me, boy was I about to get a lesson in how this thing works.
Here comes a great illustration of how a misstep when you're this extended results in a complete filet of my centre
an ill-fated attempt at material recovery.<n><n>If instead<n>Knf3...QxB and I'll eventually be down 5 pts instead of 3<n><n>if Kg2...then Be4 and leads to me having half my pieces pinned
Opening up development and grabbing a diagonal
Remind anyone of the opening?
I knew if he made this move I was toast - at this point all I could hope for was a mistake.<n><n>My first game against Alekhine's defense and my first game against a non-novice.  A few key learnings but nothing really inspiring here.  Thanks for reading though!
In the opening of this game I was fixed about exchanges!!
Rh3#. I never defeated a 1571 player. It's true it's unrated, it's true he made many mistakes, but it's always good to beat someone else in this way. I mean 18.Qb3 for me it's been a great move. Maybe not for you. Please let me know what you think about this game. Bye!
My normal opening
After exchange black would bring his knight with tempo into the game.
Black cannot push the c-pawn, so I made moveless this crowd.
Hi everyone!  Here is the third game in a series of 3 called Snap Mate.  Here my opponent, who has a rating of nearly 1600 falls into a snap mate after only 16 moves played.
16. Nf6# - yup, it is mate!  The pawn move onto the e file has opened up the d file for Glenda to control with fatal consequences for black!  A knight checkmate - cool!
I threaten his pawn, he now has a choice, protect the e5 pawn with one of his pieces or take my pawn…
He takes my pawn.
He takes my pawn.
…And he takes mine with his own.
And he takes me back. :(
I push up my rook…<n>And he resigns! :D What a game. I won with a bit of luck but it was a tight game in the end.
Though this isn't technically a loss it's certainly a game I could have won and for that reason I have decided to annotate it.<n><n>This is a mini tournament game where this is the starting position
I don't know what I was thinking of here, Rxe3+ is surely the move
This is no real threat
this is a ok move... i think Nf6 was best
not bad at all, if black takes, white takes and gets the e file.
? just lost a pawn
!! the best move of the game!! black sacs his rook for the horse cause after white takes, black goes a2 and queens!! hoped that you liked it? please comment and rate it on the star system.
Preparing for Queen-side castling
he takes so I recapture
he attacks f6 so I defend with a gain of time
so he takes my Queen.....
This is pretty standard and white has a central advantage
White has some good pressure on the h pawn and will probably look to utilise the open b file. Black is  thinking of castling long as I believe white will castle short, get greedy and take the h pawn allowing black some attacking opportunities. This is all very early and not sound thinking,however, it is what was going through my mind.
This suits black, as the white squared bishop is no longer trapped
so i move up meaning he lost a major piece for a pawn
not a bad move, however it puts 2 pawns on the d file with no protection for d5
he takes my queen, i left my e file unprotected
he takes advantage and takes my bishop
moving in for the end game
This not an important game - but I leave you with a position where you have to find the next move - it is an interesting tactic!
Preparing Be6, - I don't want it hit with Ng5.
He completes the queen-side fianchetto.
Part of the standard attacking formation - see comparisons with the Yugoslav Attack against the Sicilian Dragon.<n>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sicilian_Defence,_Dragon_Variation,_Yugoslav_Attack,_9.Bc4
Continuing with my development.
He takes.
He takes with check.
This move.
OK find black's next move?<n><n>Thank you for reading. Please rate this annotation on the star system and leave a comment or two to let me know how I am doing. until next time dear reader!
This kind of Tartakower's move always baffles me. But I wanted to enjoy myself.
...and this allows black time to defend d5. Now what?
This one, for sure.
By exchanging queens, my king is not too badly placed, and the game takes a slower pace.
...so my opponent doesn't fall for it. Very good. I have a tempo to reorganize myself. Can this queen cause harm? Yes, on h4 it will be annoying. So, don't rush for some piece in c7, be wise...
Rh3 should have been played before. But now it has an extra meaning.
Weird, but it's a way to make useful the lsb on f1. Now, another discovered queen threat is set. This is becoming pretty complicated. Black can play e4, because of Nxe4, Qxh5+, Ng3, Qh2+, Ke1, Bxb2... very, very dangerous.
Fantastic! This alows me to cover, getting into the game my last piece.
...but unfortunately for the beauty of the game, black delays it one move. An useless move, I'd say...
This blocks the b-file and makes it difficult for Black to coordinate Rs.
White now has the original four pawns plus a minor piece.
This moves forces the exchange of Rs.  After this, White can simply promote a pawn.  Black resigned shortly.
I've seen this one before. The young Tim has gone in for a dubious and half hearted attack on my wee poor pony.
Well suck me sideways! I have to have a decent think about this one. How do I stop him from eating my pony? Keep in mind a wrong move could be the end of the game in this position...
The Evans Gambit, a difficult line for Black to defend.
Black is still hoping to castle Queen-side, but White's pressure is relentless.
Now Black's fate is sealed. White's final attack is exemplary.
Black stops this...
I could have and probably should have played Bd2 this time, with blacks next move most likely to be d5 after this. To complete the line 9. Nxd5 Bxd2  10. Nxd2 Nxd5 11. exd5 Qxd5 and it's even.<n>But i always like to be on the attack as you'll see, and i'll take risks to keep it that way.<n>So i took the e pawn with my knight, with the intention that when it's chased off by the rook, i'll sack it on f7.
King takes, although perphaps black could have played Bxc3  first, but it makes no real difference.
Exchange of pieces doubling up my whites pawns in the process.
Fortunately for black and for the game in the end, i missed it and played Bc4 ?? throwing away the advantage. I was too busy concentrating on how to expose blacks king.
Although i'll be material down, the game is actually egded in my favour.<n>With my queen under attack and while still wanting to exploit the black kings vunerability i decide to trade the queen for the rook and bishop to gain complete control of the e file.
I missed the oppertunity yet again to solidfy my advantage. I should have played 19.Re7  Kg6 20.Bd3  Ne4 21.Rxe4 and the position is alot better for white.<n>I was too quick in moving though to spot this and doubled up the rooks instead. In effect this should have left the game in a stone cold draw after....
Kh5?? This changes everything. I guess with the material advantage black didn't want to settle for the draw. But it's back in whites favour after 23.R1e3 Qb6 24.Rh3  Kg4 25.Rg3  Kh4 26.Rxg7 Qb1  27. Bf1.....
But i did not see this and continued checking to see where black was intending to put their king.<n><n>(It has also been pointed out since publication that ''Instead of this, 23. Be7!? now, although not the best move, is actually still winning for white. White's other Bishop is better placed on d3 than e2. If after 23. Be7 Qb6 (not 23...Nxe7?? 24. R1e5 g5 25. Rxf6 when Black must give up his Queen to avoid mate.) 24. Bxf6 gxf6 25. Rxf6 Rg8 26. g3 Qd8 27. Ree6! and Black, again, has to give back his Queen.'' Thanks for agmac for pointing this out.<n><n>With Blacks knight covering e5 and my White squared bishop blocking the kings escape it would make sense and give the sack a purpose.<n>however i was always thinking about black playing g5 and would have preferred blacks king on the g file rather than the h file, meaning that g5 isn't an option.)
Checkmate!<n>I appreciate that this game is not the best for tactical awareness and probably could have been won easier, but it is worth mentioning that when sacrificing pieces, if you take too long thinking over whether the sack is sound or not your oppontent is going to catch on that you want them to take it which is why i didn't especially take the time over my moves and didn't nesscessarily play what was best. However i hope the final outcome makes up for all this , after all not every game is won when you're the equivalent of 13 pawns down :)<n>Thanks to Oinegue for playing and thanks to everybody who looks at my game.<n>comments are much appreciated, even if it's just about how bad my spelling is, lol
Black is looking ok in this position. white has gained nothing from the opening.
black lost a piece but the game is not lost yet.
And I have time to get to his c=pawn.
an interesting move.  It offers to swop queens with double pawns, opening the a file
black acepts the offer
The Karpov/Smyslov/Steinitz Variation of the Caro-Kann
Black has equalized in the opening.
Black has a slight advantage in this endgame.
Game in the centre.
No much choice left to black to deffend here. The rook is already out of the game:(
Let's try to trap this queen...
Way too many black pieces are pointed on this sqare for white to hope covering it with this move.
Let's firstly attack:)
White at least gets another Black pawn for his N but his QB and QR are still completely undeveloped.  Nominally, the material score is level but White has already lost any tactical advantage gained from the Queen sacrifice.
Not only does this defend g3 but it reduces the risk of discovered check on the e-file.  However, it still does nothing for the QB and QR.
and, faced with mate in 1, White resigned.
I think this is OK.
? If g4/e4, I would have resigned!
? I don't really understand this move. Do you?
The most common move at this point. Black will try a quick attack on the king in some games, and in others, the goal was to defend f4 I hear h4 is good for white, but I don't see it.
Continuing development. Usually my next move would be d4, but not in this game.
I wouldn't have been to disappointed if this game was a normal game, but this was in the 73rd gameknot tournament. I still have good chances of winning round 2, but I need to play slower now. I wonder if I would have won with d4.
1.e4. I alternate this and 1.d4. I don't have a preference.
however the double isolated a-pawns will be a permanent weakness for me to targer
This was the turning point for my attitude of the game. I was not going to lay down and die. I was going to win the game at all cost. Whatever it takes. For my friend.
! A psychologically good move! "When you are ahead in material trade pieces" So can you imagine his joy when I offered a trade of Queens?
Black wins a pawn,but is already lost
Generally speaking returning a piece does not promote development.  Black would have been better off with Pe6 or Pe7 here, which lets the queen protect the knight.  Let white trade--white drops behind in development when the black queen advances into the field.
Black has two pieces protecting that square.  White ends up losing a pawn point in this exchange.  Better would be Re1.  White might also think BxPe5.  NxBg4, QxN, BxB.  We see black comes out ahead of white seizes that wayward pawn.
I liked the knight move best.  Rf7 black threatens the queen, but it is an empty threat because Qg8+ and black cannot move Ke7 while Ng6 was played.  Black interposes the rook, QxRf8#.  Game.  Set.  Match.  11 love.<n><n>Here Qe7, QxQ+, KxQ, Rfe1...  Fun, but now the game moves on past 20 moves.
This is the French Defence. Few Grandmasters play it regularly, but at amateur level, it is a great opening. The strategic ideas are simple if you known them. In many variations, the position becomes closed, which might not be such a good idea against a weaker opponent.
But I don't. Actually, I this this move deserves a question mark. I was calculating variations starting with 23. Nf6+, but forgot that 23. Nh6+ Kg7 24. Nxf7! destroys the shield in front of the king and 24...Kxf7 25. Qxg6+ Kf8 26. Qg8#. If I had not moved the h-pawn, the Nxf7-sacrifice would have not worked.
Here I see the Nxf7-trick.
This is a mistake, but the position is lost anyway.
Expanding into the kingside, my fav opening in last few months. Someone told me it is the Grand prix opening. <n>I dont know, not formally schooled in basics. I just go for stuff like windmill and have fun.
just routine development
see
At my age I dont have time to read basics and openings etc, which is why my rating is stuck at 1600. But I have read a few exciting things and sometimes get a chance to practice them. <n>This is chess for fun, hope you enjoyed. Pl comment freely and pl rate
Don´t remember how to play against this one. Is going to be one of those funny chaotic opening games!
Sorth of an Alejine knight opening here
Didn´t see this. I thought 7...Nbd7 was a good one, since there is 8...Nb6 if  change is not accepted; and if so, black has a strong attack on the king´s side.
Good one! I spent most of my time here trying to find a good combination, but to no avail. I didn´t want to end up with one extra pawn only out of this nice position.
Now R in e5 is lost. 1-0
Crucial mistake for white. By not paying attention, white let me take one of his rook. The game is getting better and better for black.However, black still need to pay attention as the small slip can cost the game
But that's not how it happened.
White improves his bishop's position while removing a piece which black has moved four times in the opening.
White eventually catches on and plays Nh4 later in the game, but it would have been good after this.
I was expecting ...Nd5, to which I would have replied 17.  Rad1, and I didn't see any significant clear choice for black's subsequent move so I didn't analyze any further.
By the traditional values for material, white has a modest advantage of one pawn after that sequence.  But black has lost two pieces around his vulnerable king, and white still has a swarm of them hovering nearby, as well as the continuing initiative.
The theme for this game, in a word: development.
This is the start of Freddy's many game tournament.  This game ends in a drawn though as white I threw the win away.  Normally during this tourney white will go for blacks king quickly.  But as my opponent develops I notice the poor placement of the pieces so I continue to develop and attack when I'm ready.
Here both black and white are fully developed though I feel white has a slight edge due to the placement of the pieces.
takes back with the pawn which is what I planned on.
Finally take the rook when it's good for me.
I didn't see this move but I formed a plan for it after seeing this.  I fell it was fairly brilliant.
Now the queen is trapped.
Desperation as my opponent put it.  This move threw me for a loop.  This is where I give black drawing chances.  Best was Kxc2 (the obvious move...) Qc6+ Kd2 (black has no more checks) a6 defends Rxb5+ a4! now I believe blacks life is short.
I play white in this blitz game.  Normal queen's gambit opening for a while.
My normal conundrum--how to handle pawns???  Help?
Looking for counterplay on the Queen side.  This threatens to win a pawn, actually, and I'm not sure black's best response.  Perhaps bxa4, followed by a rook trade, is best.  This does allow white a good knight on c5, however.  But black opted for...
?  Black lacks an immediate threat, and is allowing connected passed pawns.
? This worked, but it's a crude tool it seems.
Alternative variation: 19. Ng5 g6 20. Nf6+ [winning the rook]
White is clearly thinking 9. Bxd5 wins the QP since 9. ... Qxd5? 10. Nc7! wins Black's queen, right? - and moving the king has the same problem, although to a lesser degree since Black gets the two minor pieces for a Rook and a pawn.<n><n>Not 8. Qe7, as discussed.  8. ... Ne7 looks most conventional.  From Black's point of view, this is best because it clear the Queen-side for action, even though the bishop is pinned.
White springs his trap - but is in for a surprise.
White, for all he lost a piece, does still have development, the attack, a pin, and the ability to force the column open on his side - but he forgot about the Rook.
The final fireworks commence, White down a rook and a minor piece.
The final combination simply appeared: but White was too busy trying to maintain an attack with insufficient material and could not watch his position.  It would have happened eventually; any attempt to regroup would return the attack and the tempo to Black.  Game.
An unusual opening.
Black, smartly, does not let White exchange his useless KB.
Stopping White's potential K-side expansion.
Black looks for a K-side bind.
Black wins back his Pawn.
This piece exchange normally would help White free his game... but not this time.
I start out with the English opening
simple development from Black
?! I'm not sure about this move anymore... it would probably have been better to move the knight away. This move forces Black to make a choice, and it wouldn't want to waste time retreating...
With White's backward development, this would actually be beneficial for Black. It also stops my plan to exchange queens with Qd5 (I know I just said exchanges may be good for Black but after the exchange, my knight becomes a bit of a thorn in Black's side)
I don't know what Black's intentions were here
let me just take a little bit of time to say how I -bleep-ing hate it when this -bleep- happens! (pardon my French) Black's now going to slowly mop up White's pawns, one by one, until White's defence is destroyed. Black's pieces are in a much better position than White's, meaning that Black has a winning endgame here. (this has happened a lot in my games - my opponent gets his rook behind my pawns before I can do anything about it)
'the best defence is a good offence' I needed to launch an attack of my own if I wanted to steal a win from this
and Black takes the pawn, as I expected
and Black takes the rook and threatens to steal another pawn
Black still has very real threats on White, and White has nothing
check (I offer a draw here, but it's rejected for...)
I offer another draw, and this time, it's accepted :)
I'll win back my Pawn...
Philidor's Defense.
Steinitz variation of Philidor's defense.
White now has two pawns in the field, a queen and bishop, and is set to castle on the king's side.  Black has two pawns, making him a little underdeveloped.
White has moved this bishop three times, sacrificing the left side pawns in the process.
With this move black sacrifices Pa6.
Black now has a very strong king side attack whilst white%u2019s queen is tied to the knight and cannot assist in the defence.
hey hey all. i wanted to save this game because it is short and sweet. it is the story of the 2nd match against the host of a mini tournament i am in.
A little back story before this game which may make it more enjoyable as you read.  this is my second mini tournament on game knot where i won the first. and i was able to pull a game like this in each tournment.
this opponent lost to me in game 1 where i sacrificed all my material to leave him a knight up but have a fast passed pawn and successfully got him to promotion for the win.
opponent adopts a defensive development.
as for me its what i wanted. but ill let him do the trade!
and so opponent resigns.  i hope you all enjoyed this game i love pawn racing games hehe.
Standard opening play so far.
This move promises an interesting game. Black counterattacks White's e-pawn but blocks the queen's defence of g5, meaning that after 4. Ng5 Black has to give at least a pawn to stop the attack on f7.
So far I've played this move over Nxf7 as I think it's what I'd be more likely to play if I face this opening "in real life", and I wanted to practise it and explore some variations. After 5. Nxf7, Black can play 5... Bxf2+ 6. Kxf2 Nxe4+ with a bizarre position. The game move instead grabs a pawn and forces Black to move the king, preventing future castling.
In my first game in this mini-tournament, 6... Nxd5? was played, but after that move Black simply does not have enough compensation for the pawn and his exposed king. Freddy played 6... d6. The rook move lines up the pawn on f2, threatening 7... Bxf2+ 8. Kxf2 Nxe4++.
In my game with Freddy I left the bishop on d5 for too long and it got snapped up. Here I exchange it off, followed by retreating the knight, hoping for a quieter position in which White can enjoy his extra pawn in peace.
So much for a "quieter position". This unnassuming pawn move actually conceals a thunderbolt ready to strike. It indirectly defends the e4 pawn, since if Black takes...
I wondered if taking with the other pawn was better, as it opens a second line of attack onto d4 and keeps the g4 bishop defended, but I don't see that Black can derive much advantage from this. 17... dxe4 18. Ne5 Qd6 19. Nxg4 fxg4 20. Qxg4 Qxd4 and now White has the simple Qxe4+ winning. Anyway, whichever pawn Black captures with, he probably hoped to win back some material now thanks to the pin.
Now that d4 is defended is the time to attack! If Black takes the knight, Qh6+ regains the piece, and the rook and queen create numerous mating threats (unless Black blocks the check with Qe6, in which case White exchanges, still regains the piece on c6, and has the strong advantage of R+R against R+B in the endgame).
Thanks to my opponent for the game, and to Freddy for this mini-tournament!
Stalhandske challenged me to a dual because in a early annotated game in which he was played the Alekine defense I made the pompous statement that Alekine defense was dead and a guaranteed win for white in all lines. So he challenged me to walk the talk and prove it.  FYI if there are many grammar and spelling mistake please excuse them as this was done in a rush.
Objective complete! Black has eliminates white's center superiority and the game is equal. I am not a fan of the main alternative 4. ...Bg4 5. Be2 e6 6. 0-0 in my view is more pleasant for white.
Maybe this is not the best move but it still leaves me in charge in the center. The gameknot engine suggested 6. Ne5 as best. But here are my thoughts. I have already resigned to the fact that white has gained absolutely nothing from the opening. At this point I am visualizing how I might be able to make something happen on the king side. I see that first I must strengthen the D-pawn my last bastion in the center. Then I see the glimmer of excitement when I have a bishop on c2 and the queen on d3. But this is not enough in of itself. I must provoke black into making some positional concessions on the king side. So maybe Bg5 with the help of h4-h5 will be often to break the dead lock.
With d4 being so weak the last thing I want to do is help black build pressure up against it. 8. dxc6 Nxc6 is in my view better for black this is what the gameknot engine suggested.
Stalhandske commented at this point during the game that he felt he had succeeded in proving that the Alekine defense is not dead. Myself of course with a lump in my throat had to agree. It is in my opinion that in this current position black is slightly better. He has no serious pawn weaknesses, his pieces are able to mobilize freely and quickly. the only real drawback for black is that he has no real prospects of attack. This however, did not discourage me, I will continue on executing my term plans and rely on my strong positional skills to create some magic. I intend to do a dance(the shuffle) to reorganize my pieces put pressure on the king side. My fingers are crossed that Stalhandske will assist me by playing moves like ...h6 and maybe if I am so lucky ...g6.
Now the game takes on a very masterful feel where both sides make small moves that have long term significant. It is important to note that neither side is looking for knock out blows( this is in stark contrast to amateur games where one side will make a ration move looking for that quick strike). it is here where the position is absolutely level where master games are won and lost. It is imperative to be patient, make small improvements and make no weaknesses. With that said we can see that while 11. ...Bb4 is good it is not ideal because it is short sighted in that the pin on c3 is of no real consequence. So what is can black do to gain something down the road. Maybe the answer is 11. ...Bd6!? controlling the b8-h2 diagonal which will become really important 10 moves from now.
Now black maybe thinking of capturing on c3 with the support of ...Nd5. When Stalhandske played 11. ...Bb4 this is what I thought he might be up to. However, I have already adequately made preparations for it well before he got up this morning!That is a joke a Stalhandske ;)
it is hard to slap Stalhandske's hands for this since there is no way he could foresee the long term consequences of conceding the g6 square to white. But it has to be said that this is where it starts to go south for black. This is considered as a "positional concession" and one like this one is not too bad but the problem is that it is like kicking a hornets nest, it causes more problems than it solves. In this game the hornets nest is the light square weakness on g6 and h7.
Of the two players I must say that white has improved his position much more than black. This is a result of the contrasting approaches to the position. Black who has chosen to active piece development that have immediate short term prospects is running out of useful moves. Furthermore, his pieces are not as harmonious as their counterparts. Compared to white who has chosen to resist immediate attacking prospects for long term advantages. From here on out all of white's patient maneuvering begins to pay dividends as black now starts to scramble just to keep up with white.
Eliminating the primary defender of the light squares in front of the king is the next step of softening the defenses for h4-h5.
Black has nothing useful to but sit and wait. This is one of the major drawbacks of the Alekine defense. It is a defensive juggernaut but it sorely lacks attacking resources.
Stalhandske also completes his positional maneuvering. However, white has the edge due to the fact that his pieces are better coordinated and superior to their counterparts. Yet, the edge is not enough to win because of the lack of exploitable weaknesses. This is not unusually in master games and it is one of the distinguishing features between a master game and an amateur game. When all things are equal the true strength is pulling a magic rabbit out of your hat.
The first signal to black that it is game on!
This stops all of black's hopes on the queen side. This is what black should have done on move 25.
!! very good move that is very cunning. I can not remember the exact line but I did see a possibility of a queen exchange on f4 that lead to a draw. So avoided it.
Now 42. f3 followed by Kf1 going to e3 prevents black from exchanging queens. On e3 the king will defend d4 and after f3-f4 white will end up with two past pawns for the win. Stalhandske resigns. In conclusion, Stalhandske did prove that Alekine defense is still alive and doing well. However, the true test of the Alekine test does not lay in the opening but in the ending. It has to be said that white does have most of the chances to win coming out of the opening. yet, despite this advantage I am quite confident that I could have easily defended this game to a draw after 28. ...Bf5! In short, this is a great defense for amateur players because of it's great defensive resources. Because of the rating difference it was up to me to prove that my positional skills were better than Stalhandske's. Had Stalhanske found and played 28. ...Bf5 then he would have achieved a great victory by achieving a draw over a player most likely 400 points north of his own.
He takes.
This move surprised me. He has pressure on f2 and b2, but is this move really better than simple development such as d6?
This is a double edged move. If I can maintain this pawn here, it may be very hard for him to develop his queen-side pieces. This d6 pawn also cuts his position in two and may hinder him from moving pieces from the queen-side to the king-side and vice versa. On the other hand this advanced pawn could end up being weak and lost. Also d5-d6 allows his knight to develop to c6 and then d5.
I don't suppose this happens with actual, physical pieces. This was a mouse slip. I intended to play d4.
This is a terrible move, any way you cut it. The game is won for me here.
Grunfeld Defense
Ah. An opportunity to develop with time?
Now it is just a matter of getting to his c pawn.
This just hastens the c pawn's demise.
karo-kann defense
Not sure that is best choice
saw it<n>BUT Kc5 is threat now
The Three Knights Game.
I always do this kind of opening to expect the Four Knights Game Italian Variation.
This is exactly how I felt about this move: Really Black? Fine, I will let you take me.
I definetely bought my one-way ticket to the torture chamber when I didn't see this coming.
This move weakened my position quite a bit.
Buzz off, Black Bishop. Why don't you help out YOUR poor pieces?
Very chaotic so far
Black destroys his game entirely!!!
Black defends the KNP and opens a line for his B to participate in the defense.
I guard it.
Spoiler Alert: 4.Bxc6.  Fear not players of the Black pieces as you can spice this variation up too.  No risk no reward.
The start position of the game from the thematic tournament.  When I went through the CHESS OPENINGS link on GK's front page I found absolutely no annotated Spanish Game: Marshall Attacks to reference as I prepared to start games in two separate thematic tournaments on the site.  So....I will remedy that to a degree.  Not saying these are necessarily outstanding examples of the Marshall, but they are indicative of the tactical nature of the line.
I would not be surprised if this is a main line of the 12.Bxd5 cxd5 variation arrived at via transposition.
The Q-side minority attack often associated with the Queen's Gambit Declined is also seen in the Marshall Attack!
? black just wasted 2 moves for this???
! the best move for black.
?! this was tricky move, i thought that i would have an advantage if black played were i wanted him too.
now, this the most interesting part of the game!
waste of time.
Finally, developing the Ng1.  White is ahead on development and has an advantage.
opening up the Q-side.
Better is 12. bxc4 picking up the c-pawn and the a pawn.<n><n>However, even with that slight inaccuracy, black has an issolated a-pawn, is behind in development, hasn't castled and controls less space than white.  Having said that he is still in the game but needs to get his act together quite quickly!
? This blunders the pawn and doesn't get massive compensation (if any).
I opt for the closed Sicilian in order to steer the game into unfamiliar lines.
The Queen is hoping to dethrone the black king with various moves including Bxh6 and Be4.
5. Nb4 does't seem to be suggested in my limited opening library, and it seems to cost black a pawn.
An opening I have very little experience with...
'course not! Black has just reintroduced me to a tactic that I had not encountered for a long, long time. Personally, I really hate it when this happens!
!? White could maintain material equality with 6.Bxd5 Qxd5 7.Nc3 Qa5 [this might have been better, but I'm not really sure] but I didn't see that line when I played this move. As for why I decided to save the knight instead of the bishop, there are two reasons for that; 1) after Bb3, dxe4 White has to waste an extra tempo moving the knight again, and 2) I didn't want the pawn in the centre of the board
?! There is a purpose in this - provoking 10.c3? Nd3+! 11.Ke2 Nxb2, picking up the bishop. [12.Qc2 Nd3 13.Qxd3 Qxd3 14.Kxd3 gets back the piece, but Black is definitely better, an example is 14...0-0-0+] However, Black has just violated one of the opening rules - 'never move a piece twice in the opening'
opposite-side castling! let's see how this plays out! :)
?! I think Black's next move would have been better off played here... this move turns out to be a problem  later in the game
while I start one queenside! [not sure if this game is the best example, but this is probably why opposite-side castling leads to exciting play - if both sides attack, it'll all come down to who succeeds first :)]
I was confident at this point that I was going to win (naturally) so I was looking for the quickest way to seal the deal... and that almost cost me the game (that has happened to me a couple of times before, and it's always a heavy blow to my 'chess playing morale' when it happens) I was playing round with the idea of Nc4, and had actually put the position on the board... I headed towards the 'submit button'.... then I noticed Qh2# - phew! so I quickly hit the reset button and played...
for awhile, I actually became worried when I saw this move. Black, here, threatens mate again with Rh5, then Rh1#. The first defence I saw against this was 29.Rd1 Rh5 30.Kf1, but could Black continue the attack with 30...Rh1+... well, it turns out that White never needed to worry about that line in this game...
? Kd8 was much better here - Black has just lost his only source of counterplay
In this position, I would not hold it against Martin to resign - what attack does he have left?
It's obvious that Black doesn't really have any plan, but [although Black follows the 'don't trade when behind' rule] he shouldn't have let my pawns get so far into the Black position. Here, Black hopes for c7+, where Kc8 seems to hold the position.... though White now has a spectacular win...
starting with this move - can you see it?
!! This was the reason for White's Rc1, and also the reason for the title of this annotation - if Black takes the queen [bxa6], it is mate in 3 - 38.b7+ Kxb7 39.c8=Q+ Kb6 40.Qxa6# [the Rc1 supports the c-pawn] if Black does not take the queen...
Korchnoi responds with d5 which is slightly odd for his style of play as most of the time (86% of the time in fact) Korchnoi replies to 1.d4 with Nf6 and either a Gruenfeld or an Indian. So with d5 Korchnoi might have something prepared... <n><n>On 1...d5 Black is simply mimicking white's move. This can lead to the many variations in the Queens Gambit Declined such as the Slav, Tarrasch, Semi-Tarrasch Defence as well as the Torre Attack and other uncommon opening variations. It is a perfectly logical and playable move.
Here we are at the Tarrasch Defence. <n><n>Usually in the QGD blacks main goals are e5 or c5. Here with the Tarrasch Defence black achieves this goal early however, it can lead to a slight strategic advantage to white.
By far the best and most common move. If 5...exd then the Tarrasch Defence is introduced or if 5...Nxd5 then the Semi-Tarrasch is introduced.<n><n>With the Tarrasch Defence black accepts an isolated d pawn for smooth development and plenty of space. Many GM's have played the Tarrasch Defence now and again including former World Champion Garry Kasparov until Karpov with the white pieces outplayed him in the World Championship match. In this defence white plays against black's isolated pawn while black tries to use his piece mobility to lauch an attack.<n><n>Unlike it's cousin, the Semi-Tarrasch Defence does not give black an islolated d-pawn but instead allows white to build a strong center. (See game)
A critical point in the opening. Black has allowed white to obtain a large central space advantage and with 3 minor pieces on the board he should be looking to trade off pieces to lessen a future attack of white's. This is exactly what this move and Bb4  accomplish.
Although black has suceeded in exchanging two sets of minor pieces white doesn't really mind as his two minor pieces are very well placed.
Now that the position has simplified we can analyse the position. There are only two sets of minor pieces on the board but white's bishop can come into play actively unlike black's white bishop while white's knight is also actively placed. White also has a large centeral majority and although the king looks awkward in the center its is perfectly safe. <n><n>Because of his small centeral majority, black's chances are on the queenside with his 2-1 pawn majority on the left wing. However, it will only be towards the endgame when black can exploit this and he must be content with developing and defending himself for now. <n><n>White on the other hand is looking for the d5 advance to create a passed pawn and even if it is not queened it will draw blacks forces away from his king where upon white will lauch an attack.
With this move black anticipates the coming d5 advance and although it is too late to stop the pawn, after d5 exd exd black has Nf5 and Nd6 to blockade the pawn.
With the idea of Nd6 blockading the pawn but Petrosian has an excellent move.
! Now black has 3 choices<n>1. trade the bishop for the knight (See game)<n>2. Attempt to ignore the knight by Qf6 after which white will protect the bishop and black will have to endure a awful middle game due to the well placed knight.<n>3. An attempt to win a piece with 18...Nxc4 when after 19.Nxd8 Nxd2 20.Nxb7 Rab8 21.Na5!! bxa5 Rxd2 he is left with 2 doubled A pawns which have no chance of becoming passed while white still has the passed d pawn.
? From all the alternatives mentioned, this is the worst continuation although it temporarily wins a piece black has no way to block the future passed c pawn and with less pieces on the board white's passed pawn is increasing in power and this ultimately leads to blacks downfall.
! White keeps the queens on the board (instead of Qxd6) which allows him to attack on the K-side while blacks pieces are tied down to defending the passed c-pawn. This move also gains a tempi which will help white.
! With this move (and the next) White demonstrates his complete superiority over black as he can take his time to maneuvre since black cannot do anything productive. Rae8 loses to 24.Qxe8! Rxe8 25. Rxe8 Kh7 26.Red8 since the passed pawn is too strong.
Black is simply bidding his time however I think this is a psycological surrender as Petrosian with his next move realises blacks 'surrender' and plans an attack.
Bidding time.
White is now preparing the g5 break. Just watch how Petrosian calmly maneuvers his pieces.
! A very flexible move. The reason behind this move is that when white plays g5 black might block the position with h5 and g6 when the hole on f6 will become a weakness. Re2 allows the queen to come to f3 so that if the h5 g6 maneuvre is played, the queen can exploit the hole on f6. Furthermore, the rook is better positioned here as it can come to the c-file or d-file if necessary where as on e4 it cannot come to c4. It sometimes seems unecessary to do this move and if black had certain threats/counterplay it probably would be a waste of a move. However black do anything productive so white can afford to take his time.
Black is still bidding his time...
Black takes control of the e-file but this comes too late. Only now can one appreciate the importance of the 26.Kg2! move as if it were on g1 black would have drawing chances with Re1  and Rc1.
A final mistake. The point of this move was so that after Rd7 Qe8 the queen protects the f-pawn however, Korchnoi under time pressure misses the following combination.
?? Blunder due to time pressure but black was lost anyways.
This is the move used by Polgar. The other move is taking on f6, with complicated game, although it seems that black is not necessarily worst.
This is the critical position of the variation. There are several options for Black, curiously all involving the only good transit square for his pieces: the d7 point. This position is too much fun to spoil it with my analysis, but you all can work it out why Nc6 or moving the queen is not that great for Black. It will give you an idea of the punch packed in White's setup.
What now? Material is equal. But white's knight on a8 is remote, and might get trapped after moves like Nd7 or Bc5, or, in some lines, after the simple b5. The bishop on e3 is also a problem. on the other hand, Black's king is in the centre and the presence of the white pawn on f6  make it dificult to develop and coordinate the pieces. on a more "long term" perspective, the nice pawn centre might fall, togheter with the f6 pawn, leading to a drawish engame. <n>White has the plan to head for the draw as soon as possible, before Black clears a way for his king. The theme idea is to capture in d4, using the lack of squares of the opponent king, for instance: 18. Bd4 ed4 19. Rd4 Nd7 (forced, Re8 Nc7 # Rc8 Bh3) 20. Bh3 Bc6 21. Nb6. The problem is now, however, 21. Bc5, and Black is winning. Since White could not see a way to make this work (although THERE IS ONE!) he decides to try and better his chances by playing an intermediate move, that seems to lead to an even more forced and beautiful draw, involving, as we will see, the same idea. <n>Now let us torn to the position after the sacrifice, to show the missed continuation that would have lead to complete equality. After 18. Bd4 ed4 19. Rd4 Nd7 20. Bh3 Bc6 white has 21. b4! Stopping Bc5. But this is not all. Black can try 21... Bh6 22. Kb1 b5 23. Nb6 Kc7 24. Nd7 Rd8 and it will again a piece! Anyway, after 25. Rh4!, white collects the pawns on the kingside and is in time to exchange everything on d7, obtaining an endgame with 3 pawns agains bishop that will be easy to draw.
If you compare this position with that on move 19, it's easy to see that black activated all his pieces, while white's forces are even worse. Now there's no way to avoid loosing material (the white rook has no squares)
And White resigned. <n>Hope you enjoyed this presentation of a typical sicilian, where one should calculate everything correctly till the end before moving.
Queens Gambit Accepted.
Easiest way to defend f7, however, does it hinder black's development? Could this have been left until later?
Too little too late? Black attempts a strong counter, attacking the pawn on d4, but it's easily defended. Positioning is key in this game, and black just doesn't have enough of it.
Defends the pawn, while opening the first rank for the queenside rook.
An attempt to salvage something? No. White has seen this coming, and knows that the black queen can be forced out of the game.
The sacrifice. The rook is far too tempting, especially given that it doubles as an attack on the white queen. Black hopes this will displace white's attack, but it merely sets the endgame in motion.
g5 would have been better, as it would have delayed an imminent mate. Perhaps black has noticed the game is lost and rather than resigning offers white the respect of showing his final moves.
This opening called Owens defenes the main idea of this vriation is to attacks white center with the moves like Bb7 Nd7 e5 and solong .
the same idea. it  don't look so good for black Na6 Nh6 innit ?!
Black is completely lost now . (16.Qa4!!was much stronger)
GM Josh Waitzkin uses this opening in a few annotated games on Chessmaster.  Though not too highly favored in the db. I find it quite interesting however, it fits in to my style I like to attack and I prefer slower closed games this game will evolve into such.
The queen would be kicked out by f3 at some point anyway.  I never noticed this till a few minutes ago but notice how long the pawn on a2 hangs.  Rxa2 Rxa2 Qxa2 can be quite dangerous for black because it leaves the defense of blacks king.
This may seem like a strange move but black interestingly enough has a quick counter play option here.  20... Nxe3 21. Qxe3 Nd4! forcing a trade of knights Nxd4 exd4 and suddenly my attack is gone.
I actually have a threat in this position to win a pawn, with exd5 Qxf5 dxc6.  Note exd5 Qxd5?? Rxh6+!! Kg8 Qg5 wins.
I don't like this move as it helps my development.
I think the computer is out of its opening book since this is not standard development as I can defend the pawn with my knight or bishop.
His knight is stronger on d5 in my opinion. My passed pawn is dangerous but at least he can sacrifice it for the pawn if needed.
Black is lost at this point in my opinion.
I think at this point the computer realizes he is lost and has no saving strategy so he is only attempting various plans to see if I'll make a mistake.
I was looking for a quick win. Trading queen still wins but a quick win would be cool too. Keep in mind this is quick time control.
Looking for a checkmate. Looking for a checkmate. I was waiting for my prof to show up on the day before Thanksgiving while playing this game.
Good game! Maybe someday hard will not defeat me. Perhaps I will need to play slower. The moral of this is computers are not invincible, they just have an easier time not making mistakes.
(anticipated retreat of the bishop does not materialise) Had never played against this so it took me by surprise. now taking bishop leads to an exchange of minor pieces leaving white in a superior position, therefore gaining tempo from whites retreat is no longer on.
I think this is the best move. It prevents a discovered check if i move my e4 knight, it strengthens the centre of the board and it is constructive development.
expecting Bxf8...
White resigns. I don't think this is a premature resignation as white has a material advantage and is positionally superior.<n><n>2 important points in this match were:<n><n> 1. the intricate battle around the black king side which is successful for black because of the c6 pawn which allowed the check and black to dictate the pattern of play. <n><n>2. the gamble white takes. clever as it was, these moves should be made when you are certain of success or position as failure can result in a loss of both.<n><n>another point to be made is discipline. if black sees only material gain then he losses queen and probably match, where as from that position being happy to gain the 2 point lead ultimately wins the match for black. <n><n>I would be grateful for comments from the higher rated players to see there take on this match.<n><n>Regards,<n><n>David.
I chose to play the Reti Opening for this game. I like it because it is a subtle aggression. Instead of attempting to blast the center with a 3 or 4 pawn attack White delays multiple pawn pushes and indirectly controls the center mostly with pieces (knights to c3 & f3, a fianchettoed LSB and later developing the DSB). Pawn to c4 is an exception as it is meant to be played early, then later d4 or d3. White usually gains a slight positional advantage.
I wanted to take your bishop with my knight for two reasons: <n>1. Knights are the stronger piece in cramped, closed positions, while bishops are stronger in open positions. You have to consider each game individually, but generally, pieces get traded off and closed positions in the opening, become open positions in the middle game and end game. So, although both pieces are technically the same value, the bishops are my piece of choice.<n><n>2. Since the bishop had no place to escape to, and no other pieces could defend the bishop, you would have to take back with a pawn, thus messing up your pawn structure.
Black has to take it (Ne2+ would be deadly), and if hxN, Qxg6+. But black has fxN...
While we agreed to play the Benoni, Elyhim indicated opening with the knight in this fashion disguises the opening and allows for variation.
Normal development.
Black prepares the DSB for fianchetto. This bishop appears to be key to this defense.
Queen retreats and threatens b7. In addition, shores up the d5 defense. Elyhim warned me of his intent to advance the b pawn at this point in the game.
I debated moving Nxb5 here instead and perhaps should have made that move, but it left the d5 pawn vulnerable and I did not want to give up the central pawn. In addition, I wanted to stop the b5 advance based on discussion Elyhim had with me regarding his goal here. The a3 and b5 pawn stay in this position for the remainder of the game, cramping the Queen side white pieces quite a bit.
Threatening the white queen, black is intent on advancing the Queen side pawns.
B2 is lost, I move to castle.
Takes and forces a queen move
Finish what I started, while I'm down now and likely lost, I take comfort in a very cool looking fianchetto castle. Definitely prolonged the game a few moves.
The Knights stay here for most of the rest of the game. I like this configuration. I only wish it was closer to the other side of the board.
Never like it when my opponent parks a knight above the fianchetto. However, i intend on kicking it. However, must protect the pawn first.
Game closing move I think.
Think I might make 50, a personal record against this master opponent!
Didn't make 50, but oh so close! Thanks for the game Elyhim, excellent mentor in Benoni. i haven't defended that many forks in a single game since I started playing! Until next time!
4.-...Nxe4<n>5.-d4 Nd6<n>6.-Bxc6 dxc6<n>7.-dxe5 Nf5<n>8.-Qxd8 Kxd8 Its the so called Berlin Defense; a variation long time favorite of Kramink.
Black its lost, altough Bb6, 8.-e5 Ne8 9.-d5 Nb8 would be lost too, but less lost.
It looks like some variation of the English opening.
In the process a pawn got down I got to recover it or I have to attack with the remaining pieces. This stage I'm bit nervous.
I have some plans to attack the black King while Queen is in the upper part of the board.
A dream position for any Gruenfeld player. White's d-pawn is a very real target in many lines, where it is much better defended. I think the position will soon transpose, as White will waste a few tempos, to the Tarrasch defense.
The first waste of a tempo. In what follows, it's pretty hard to find a single move which is wrong by White, what is revealed by his moves, though, is the lack of a plan of action. It takes a very active player to hold the balance in a position with an IQP (isolated Queen's pawn).
So White is now three tempos down. A simple count of tempos reveals that I am technically playing the White side of the Tarrasch.
Setting up the blockade on d5. White has a very good score in this line of the Tarrasch.
Both sides have developed all their pieces. But there is a hidden weakness in White's position, which becomes very evident in a few moves.
Trying to defend a2 with the Queen can lead to disaster after 17...Bf5! 18. Bb5 (18. Qa1 loses the exchange after 18...Nc2) Qe6 19. Ng5 Qxe3! 20. fxe3 Bxb1 21. Nxd5 Nxd5 22. Rxc8 Rxc8 23. Rxb1 Nxe3 and not only has White lost a pawn, he's still stuck with a IQP, which is significantly weaker with fewer pieces on the board.
A tasty morsel. I just realized that in two of my current games I have captured this exact pawn to gain material, albeit not always positional, advantage.
The pawn is saved and now it's time to convert the extra material.
Kicking away my Rook but I was prepared for this.
White doubles in return. The position has settled.
So I can start pushing my extra pawn. It's not going to queen in four moves, but the threat alone is enough to make my opponent jumpy...
i have trying thye queen pawn opening for a while now and i like how the board turns in it.
why trade when i can win?
This was a Gameknot game I played with one of my Oswestry Chess Club colleagues.
I have two opening databases on my Gameknot system. One is the world database of over-the-board games played by the top players and the other is the database of openings played by the best Gameknot players. This move 6....Nc6 is not even in the world database - and for good reasons. In this variation, black usually plays at some time either c7-c6 strengthening the centre, or c7-c5 contesting the centre. This rules out both these options for the time being.
He takes back.
I advance in the centre. Gameknot computer gives this as a mistake, but in the only game in the database with this variation, white won. It seems logical to advance in the centre while I can.
He improves the position of his Nh7.
He takes back.
I gain space on the queen side.
He takes.
This discovered attack wins the exchange.
he takes back.
And now the threat is taking the knight with mate, now that h7 is covered. <n>Black now resigned.<n>Many thanks for reading this, please rate this annotation on the star system, and leave a comment or two to let me know how I am doing. Until next time dear reader!
after a quick check on a few ongoing games, I find this is the most played here, and that the altenative Nxf7 doesn't work at all for White (it's funny how in all of Freddy's mini-tournaments that this knight fork is bad)
Black regains his lost pawn
but in this instance, White decides to defend with the knight. This move, however, leads to an impressive counter-attack from Black which really picks up the pace of the game...
let's take a look at the position here - material is even, and each side only has one developed piece. Black has the better piece - the queen - in no-man's land on the (White's) right side of the board, and while White has a weaker piece - the rook - it restricts the mobility of all of Black's pieces (for now, Black's Queen is stuck on the g-file protecting the pawn, as if she moves; 23. Rxg7, and unless the Black Queen had moved onto the h-file, Black's rook will soon be lost
! I didn't see this - Black gains two passers on the g and h files (though I wouldn't have been able to stop it regardless)
nope, I don't see it, only an opportunity to nab that extra pawn...
! when he has mate! Black cannot be stopped!
and checkmate! Great game Steve! :D
Although the Najdorf's 5...a6 is supposed to prepare the central thrust 6...e5, I've never seen it played against 6. Bg5, so I haven't tried it myself.  As it doesn't even appear in Nunn's book, or in the later Nunn's Chess Openings (NCO) published in 1999, I think I'm probably right!  6... Nc6 would transpose to the Richter-Rauzer line.  Black adopts the more flexible Scheveningen formation.
Black's main alternatives at this point are the Polugaevsky Variation and The Poisoned Pawn: the Polu has an immediate 7...b5, which avoids putting the bishop on e7, where it often proves vulnerable.  Play becomes very double-edged and I have not had great success with it.  The Poisoned Pawn was once almost eradicated but has made a comeback and fills 112 pages in Nunn's book.  I recently lost as White against a 2000+ player here on Gameknot in that variation.  Interestingly enough, some players have played 7...Qc7 against me here, which also has a whole chapter to itself in Nunn's book.  I've carried on with 8. Qf3, which Nunn describes as the critical line.
This is the first departure from a main line.  Nunn gives two examples: a correspondence game from 1983 and an OTB game from 1990 but it doesn't feature in the later NCO.
Now this takes us completely out of Nunn's book.  I recently lost another game (http://gameknot.com/annotate.pl?id=26547) in this sort of position when I didn't get my K off the c-file early enough.  In this position I have the added motivations of wanting to get off the White Q's diagonal h3-c8 and to make room for my R to come to c8, creating a battery on the half-open c-file.
he has to take it with the h pawn
The Reti opening, white attacks two central squares on the first move
The Reti opening has shifted into some sort of a Queen Gambit Declined (QGD)
Takes my pawn
Cambridge Spring book move
Anticipating the opening of the b file
? This move helps black here
takes his a pawn...
But he takes my c pawn, and create his own passed d pawn.
Pushes the passed pawn
?? Immediately loses the game. Can you find the winning move for black?
Hi everyone!<n><n>I played through an unrated game with my mentor, Ionadowman and lost.  Here I was trying out the Vienna against him as this was an old opening and one which I thought I could try out on someone else if it worked out.  Maybe the choice of opening was OK but it was perhaps some injudicious piece placement in the middle game that cost me this game.
2. Nc3 - The Vienna Game - this move was popular with Austrians in the 18th/19th century - not played very often nowadays.
8. Qe2?! - this seemed a reasonable choice from the database.  However, thinking back it was time to break free from it.  8. Bd2 may well have been better as it would have avoided the bust up of the queenside pawns.  <n><n>Ion did have this to say in the Chat, however - "I don't think there's anything wrong with the 6.d4 line. I think you have to count on Black exchanging at c3 - he doesn't particularly want to, but it's the best he's got probably. The pawn formation you get isn't really bad at all. It has its weaknesses (the isolated rook pawn, the doubled c-pawn), but it has its upaide as well. The pawns are "doubled towards the centre", your centre is very strong on the dark squares, and the e-pawn (in this game) remains mobile and hard to blockade effectively ."<n><n>Yes, this choice may not have been fatal, and it did have it's merits, but it does not pay to make your task harder - this is the one case where following the database (I used the World Database here) is not always a good thing.<n><n>So when playing an Expert 350 points north of your rating - keep it simple!
16. Bf3 - I decide to exchange bishops to get rid of the threat on the hind c pawn but with Ion's next move I risk opening the f file and will have really nasty consquences if I don't watch out!
Alternative variation: 21... e5 22. h4+ Kh5 23. Bf3+ Bg4 24. Bxg4#
Petrov's Defense. I favor taking the pawn, it leads to rapid engagement in the middle, and it seems most of the alternatives allow black to equalize early in the middle game.
I didn't expect black to be so willing to trade queens when he is behind in material. Developing the knight with an attack against black's queen almost forces the queen back (white gains a tempo) or to exchange queens - either of which favors white.
We have only played 18 moves so far, but already this position feels like an endgame, so I decided to treat it like one. The biggest advantage for white is that now I have a clear pawn majority and a path to promotion of my supported passed pawn that is virutually guaranteed to win more material (or promote).
By not getting his rook in front of the pawn, black gives his permission to white. Permission granted, I gladly accept.
Black resigned.
My first win after a very long losing streak so I thought I would annotate this for posterity. For me, not my best game ever and it could have gone either way. In the end I just got lucky
Opening a line for one bishop and closing a line for another.
Oops!  I give my pawn to black.  This is not good!
I think this is the losing move for white...
Forking king and rook!  But I see more to this.  It is not game over, but white's situation is dire.
Very fun game!  Thanks Smitya!
Ok, so here we are, this is a typical Accelerated Dragon set up.<n>White has a few ideas here. He can play the main line with 7. Bc4, he can play for an extremely sharp game with 7.Nxc6, he can transpose into the Classical Variation with 7. Be2, or he can strengthen e4 with 7. f3.<n><n>White chose to play 7. Nxc6.
White has missed his key idea! This doesn't appear to be a bad move, but it feels like an awkward square for the Queen. The best move would have been e5, but even if White didn't know that, then Qd2 is good and fairly thematic in Dragon positions. However, this develops the Queen to a pointless square where she's not making any real threats.
Black takes advantage of his chance to develop his Bishop.<n>This move may look pretty strange, but it's thematic in this variation of the Accelerated Dragon. It often has the power to force White to castle queenside, straight into the scope of Black's Rook on a8, it just needs to move to b8.
Black decides it's time to launch his attack.
As we'll see, Black is only temporarily sacrificing the Rook here. It opens up a1 for the Black Queen to invade and take advantage of the fact that White's pieces are so uncoordinated.
White makes it easy for Black.
Most of White's pieces have been crammed into the corner. White's other two pieces are horribly placed.
I'm playing a very characteristic Sicilian Dragon opening.  Knights are all in the right spot, the c pawn is gone, the d and g pawns are in position, and the black bishop fianchettoed nicely.  I mostly got this from "How to Think Ahead in Chess".
This attack just ran out of steam, but I've succeeded in trading off pieces while maintaining my advantage.
much analysis was done here.  It came down to a choice between 21 ... h5 and 21 ... Ng5.  ... h5 while possibly not bad is murky.  the main analysis involving ... Ng5 is as follows:<n><n>22 Qh4?? Nf3+ wins.  On the 22 Qh6 and 22 Qg2 lines 22 ... f3 leads to material gain for black.  the main things which had to be worked out were the correct way of recapturing on f3.  In terms of tactical details the possibility of bxc5 for white and Bxa1 for black had to be figured out.  In some lines white winds up a rook down.  In the line he chose in the game (which was best) he wound up down a piece for two pawns.
hereabouts black was thinking in terms of how to get his light squared bishop into play.
this required a lot of work.  The point of this move was to force the rook off of f1 and bar that square to the other rook.  This is important in lines where white can play Rxf6 and black must be able to reply Qxf6 not having to worry about a Rf1 by white if black has played ... Kf8 in response to a queen check.  Whether black can force a win at this point is in question particularly if most of the pieces come off the board and white has a rook left at that point.
The hardest move to find in the game.  I believe this was the only winning chance.
this makes things easier, though in truth, black should win a piece up for two pawns.
this finish is easily won for black thanks to the zugswang mechanism.
Blocking my KP and sealing in my KB for the moment, but I'm confident I can untangle my pieces before it becomes a problem.
I was hoping to be able to move my B and develop my K-side pieces after this, but...
Finally opening a diagonal for the KB.
Joanne asked me if I wanted to annotate this game, and I will. I lost to her, but it was a learning experience.
All book through here. This is probably the most played variation of the Ruy Lopez.
I try to gain space on the Q side.
Marking time.
Joanne completes the exchange of pieces.
...this tactical shot, which ended the game with swift and thunderous suddenness. If I recapture the B my Q falls. No reason to drag out my resistance any longer, so I honorably resign. Well played by Joanne.
So far, so good!
He resigned here. Amazingly it took us 1 day to play the full game!
Me against a friend of mine. Claude Vullivux Kladninsky who plays very sharp in his openings.<n>Played 12 November 2006. We have ECF grades. So here we go. 1.e4 what I nearly always play.
! He has his outpost.
I resigned in this position because he is going to win with extra piece and pawn. Well played Vullivux.
I start with my regular queen's pawn opening and hope for d7d5 so I can play the queen's gambit.
Hmm, last game he accepted, this time he declined.
I complete minor piece development and have a major developmental advantage over him.
Looking for an opening and getting out of the way of the discovered attack.
Actually, I'm not sure what to call this. English? Queen pawn game? I call it a Slav because that's the pawn formation Black has chosen.
Most of the smoke clears. White has more space and an attack on the K-side; Black has more space and a counter-attack brewing on the Queenside.
!? -- This move weakens White's Q-side considerably, but that's not where his King lives. White's speculating that his attack will make good before Black's counterattack, and he's willing not only to weaken his position on the Q-side to make it happen but to part with material too.
?! -- Stymies the aforementioned attack down the h-file. But White has a pawnstorm rolling now, and Black's King has few places to hide.
Now Black has no checks.
Played after a long think. Black's still winning but a lot of his advantage evaporated with that d-pawn. Now everybody's got passed pawns, but it's still White who can make best use of the open lines.!
Black is trying to trap me: on 47. Rg6?? Qg6! wins. I'll have none of that silliness, however.
Kind of surprise, but this pawn will stop black's developement, at the cost of the dsb's inactivity.
g6 can be considered better, and the weakness of the black squares is not so terrible until black's dsb is in the game.
...this.
He resigned without waiting for RxB.
The second game between me and brianmahagio - he beat me last time so I'm out for payback here.
Patzer opening.
The problem with bringing out the queen is that she gets chased.  Notice here white has moved the queen 8 times, but has only two pieces in the field.  Black has advanced three pawns and three other pieces.
black easy equalize and get a good grip in the center.
white has a problem with his Knight and his q-side Rook.
there is no choice but to exchange bishops.
Bb5 - we enter the Ruy Lopez. This is one of my favorite White openings, heralded as one of the best openings to get to play with as the White pieces. It's well known for the early castling and has one of the best chances to develop early for attacking sooner.
Also main line. This develops Black, and is a fast reminder to White that he's left the e4 pawn hanging for the time being.
If Nc3 was played now, White would have too many pieces on this side of the board that this pawn could harass without issue.
This is known as the Leonhardt Variation on GameKnot. As Kasparov was hoping, this was a good choice for a convoluted opening, because I think he was playing the best overall moves as Black from here. It involves a lot of re-arranging of pieces, transforming into a difficult knot in the center for White to untangle... d6 offers more strength to e5 after White clearly wants d4, and opens the light bishop into the game.
And then, White plays d4. Nothing much else to say, it gives White more space to do things, but Black is still very solid, no matter how you slice this. I don't think d3 would be any better- it was time to move this pawn.
Okay. From this part on, I'm openly going to predict that my annotations aren't going to be exactly accurate for the rest of the match, and this move signals it- the board has gotten far too complex for a player of my level. This move is a very interesting one, as it gives White even more space to control, and it begins to contest Black's scary looking queenside, but at the same time, I would be concerned about if Black played bxa4 on his 19th. White would have bxa4, but then Black could then play Rb8. White's Queen is stuck on d2, and would have to waste a tempo in order to return back, but Black would always have a grip on the b-file. I would think that such an exchange could help Kasparov, wouldn't it?
Given the previous comment, now I'm wondering about this. I'm not sure what Kasparov saw, but I'd be afraid of White entering through the a-file at this point. At the very least- wouldn't Reb1 have been better, to help in some way in case axb5? Maybe Kasparov played with the idea of stranding c4 in his idea of the lines, but I'm not sure if this was better for Black.
But now Qf2. That's two wasted moves on White's part to the Queen! What was so useful about Qe2 in the first place, then? And why couldn't White have played Qf2 last turn? This Queen has been strengthening the dark bishop since the opening, so what was the knight doing on f6 that had this Queen hopping about when Qd2 -> Qf2 was a straight shot? Why such a detour? If White wasted any tempo this match, it was these two queen moves, and I'm sure Kasparov could have capitalized on this, if it weren't for the knight trade way back when... Those are just my thoughts.
Be4. With this move, Black is horribly confined and locked down into place. Kasparov keeps his b5 pawn (for now), but ultimately loses a lot of choices in play for the next while. The only open file Black can get into the game with, is the same file where White has two stacked rooks and a Queen ready to invade. Kasparov loses a lot of composure here, but there is still plenty to talk about from the moves that followed, and those moves following this highly controversial one (but frankly... I can only think are the two only obvious moves as White), are why I'm annotating this game. I want to see what can be made of the endgame for Black following this point and onward.
It instead comes here to help support the White Queen, as well as attack the Black Queen. Kasparov, at this point, had had it, and resigns in pure frustration. ---THE GAME ENDS HERE AND WHITE WINS---, but I'm going to continue a little bit longer to address a certain notation that was brought to Kasparov's attention in a restaurant after this game, and I'm wondering if our better players can help me see if this truly was an actual drawn outcome after this. The combination I hear that Kasparov apparently had- it confuses me...
So then... is it really true that White can be saved from the draw? Here is where I'll end the annotation- too many combinations derive from the perpetuals to try to recreate. Did Kasparov have a draw here, or is it theoretically possible for White to have stopped it? Thanks for reading the annotation, for tolerating my lower-level opinions, and I would love your feedback! :)
I'm generally a cautious-minded player, and this is my favorite opening.
The game has progressed very quickly up to this point in terms of real time. We haven't used much more than a minute each. But things slow down afterwards.
Trading off pieces when you're behind is generally considered a bad idea. Would Nf4 have been better? Otherwise, Black has to retreat the knight, which is also not a great idea at this stage in the game. Though I suppose I could have pushed the g-pawn to harass it...
And just when I was on a somewhat uncharacteristic attack, the momentum of the game changes drastically.
If ...Qxe1, Nf6#. (Ne7 would also win were it not for the knight guarding it.) I think my opponent realizes this before I do, but soon enough I catch on and my new objective becomes luring the queen off the f-file.
I don't realize that this is check, and search the board for a long time before seeing the obvious Rxf1. As I grab my rook, my opponent notifies me of the check. Thankfully the rook has no legal moves!
This square had fallen off my radar for most of the recent drama because it was guarded. This move didn't give mate, but it gave me the tempo I needed. I assume my opponent didn't see it coming.
My opponent takes a long time to come up with this move. The original speed of our first seven moves was long gone. But I knew I wouldn't give up even in this position, and began brainstorming how I'd fight back. And just as I was thinking "move a rook to d8," the move came. Move-mirroring indeed.
But my opponent also sees this idea.
This is actually a fairly good square for one of my opponent's pieces to occupy, though that's not the piece.
...The bad news is, I don't think about this very hard.
I'd seen how h8 was better than f8, but didn't see that coming. Under the circumstances, my opponent put up a strong if forlorn defense.
this was a major blunder in this game for me i was gonna lose 2 pieces just for a rook...
this is actually perfect for this opening
?<n>just development? or is something else.
now up a queen, a minor and a pawn, this game is over for white. I'm up 13 points, and have taken two queens away from white, leaving him a night and a corner.
out of book
This is not a recommended defense.  This is me messing around.
This move takes the game completely off the rails of standard play by the records of the database.
Lesson: don't exchange so fast.
This Game tells you "Do not waste your king pawns"<n><n>Let's see
The game starts off with the Giucco Piano.  Bc4 usually beckons this position, and I rarely enjoy the awkward situations that 3. ... Nf6 brings (with Ng5, threatening the f7 pawn).  <n><n>The opening was convenient, because I was in the mood for a nice, slow game.  Closed games like these tend to make mistakes and advantages in the game fairly subtle. <n><n>White has several options available.  Evans Gambit (4. b4) and the Italian Gambit (4. d4) are aggressive options.  Guicco Pianissimo (4. d3) is a tender approach where both sides rely on middle-game creativity.  Main line (4. c3) prepares to control the center on d4.
Ultimately, this is the safest position for black after white's dangerous Bg5 attack.
A game-deciding move (26. Ng5 prolongs the game.  A hypothetical line would be:<n>26. ... Rxg5  27. Kf3 Qxh3  28. Ke2 Rg2 29. Kd1 Ng4 30. Kc1 Nxf2 31. Bc2 Be3  32. Kb2 Nxd3  33. Kb3 Nxe1 34. Rxe1 Bd2 35. Rh1 Qxc3  36. Ka4 Rg3, with a win on the horizon for black).<n><n>At this point, black can declare "Mate in 9".<n>Do you see how it can be ended?<n><n>Check out Puzzle #788 to see, or just continue watching the game...<n><n>http://gameknot.com/chess-puzzles.pl?u=chessnovice
This is a game where a mistake in the opening forced me to seek for positional advantage all the game. The game was entitled by my opponent
C49 Four Knights Opening\Double Spanish Variation 4.Bb5 Bb4  <n>A risky opening for black pieces, as white have the initiative, but it is still OK.
C49 Four Knights Opening\Double Spanish Variation 4.Bb5 Bb4  <n>A risky opening for black pieces, as white have the initiative, but it is still OK.
my mistake in the opening. instead of castling, as the opening book recommends, I tried to protect my pawn, in case of 6.Bxc6 bxc6 7.Nxe5.<n><n>here my score is -0.88
the score for black is -0.47
My opponent weakened his castle-sided pawn structure on purpose, a fact that I fully exploited in the end of the middle-game. Perhaps he has a wrong conception of what a strong pawn structure is.<n>Score: +0.18
The computer analysis suggests that my best move would have been Qh3+, aiming for 20. Ke2 Ne6 21. Qd1 Nf4+ 22. Kd2 d5 23. Rh1 Qe6 24. exd5 cxd5 25. Kc1 Rab8 26. Rb1 d4 27. Nc4 Rb5. Now, after the game, this sequence of moves makes sense to me, as I really could gain more pressure on White's King, however, during the game I tend to focus on material advantage and when I saw that after Qh3+ I couldn't capture his Knight, I considered this move to be pointless, not seing the potential check with my knight, but centralizing my pawns was also a good move, which gave me the score of +0.60
Here I offered a trade while I was up positionally, however, by getting rid of two central pawns, I could open the game and increase my pieces mobility
too late... Notice that from this point to the end of the game, My opponent made a large number of mistakes, because of the psychological factor. I won't judge my opponent's mistakes, as I don't have the right to criticize him, because this game was still disputed. I'm going to show you just the computer analysis.
Everything is standard so far.
1.e4 <n><n>Someone told that this is the best opening move... :D
5. ...a6<n><n>The Najdorf variation... <n>Look at the board. Black seems to be behind in development, and maybe is true. But he's good and ...a6 is not a waste of time!! It prevents Ndb5 and prepares ...b5, pushing queenside pawns.
7. ...Be7<n><n>7. ...Be6 is more popular, but this is not an IM or GM game! This is amateur game!
9. ...Bd7<n><n>Out of book. Well, 9 moves in the book. Not so bad for an amateur match. But someone can note that, with the Sicilian, it's easier. I agree.<n><n>However, I think that d7 is more suitable for Knights than white-squares Bishop.
10.O-O-O<n><n>And now my development is near to be completed. <n><n>Look at the position. I have no real advantages, but the only piece I not already moved is the white-squares Bishop, which however controls an open side of the board. Moreover I control the d-file and I'm planning a kingside pawns ride. <n><n>Black position is worse: the Queen-Knight is still in b8, the e7-Bishop is blocked, the open c-file isn't useful yet...<n><n>I was feeling good.
22. ...fxg5<n><n>Mandatory. 23.gxf6, open the g-file, and also 23.g6 were threating.
23.Rg1<n><n>My final preparation...
23. ...Ne5<n><n>What else? This position is totally lost for black.
24.Rxg5 <n><n>And now black must lose the Queen or suffer checkmate.<n><n>I hope you enjoy my annotations of the game. Don't hesitate to contact me for mistakes, bad advises, etc... I could have made. <n><n>Thanks to warvechaosone1 for the game and hope this comments can be useful even for him.
After the development of both sides is finished, White has to make a crucial decision. White is up a pawn in material, but Black's pieces are superior positioned. The LSB is a nuisence from the beginning. The DSB will show itself on d6 very soon, and with both Bishops aiming at the King's pawns, windmill and mating themes spring to mind automatically. White's main goal must be to exchange one of the Bishops before Black's attack gets underway, preferrably the LSB. Right now, there is no line for White to achieve that goal, though. White also has to put his DSB to use. On the positive, White has an eye on e5 to use as an outpost and the promise of pushing the queenside pawns.
(?) Looses the game. The intention was to regain the quality, using the mate "threat" on g7, while preventing covering it with Rg3. As I said before, I did not realize the next move, even when I played this one. Qa4 seems the best of the worst, after committing the Queen in the back ranks while she is need for the defense.
(??) Very embarrassing. I not only make a fool out of myself, but I also prove that taking your time to move is needed even in a lost position.
This marks the two knights opening for the game (well, I think it does - correct me if I'm wrong) as White in this position, I like Black to play either this move or Bc5 (which marks the Giuoco Piano, where I would try out the Evans Gambit with b4)
and now Black is down three points, with no compensation for the lost material (in fact, he's worse off, with all but the knight undeveloped and his own king hindering the development of his Queen and bishop)
development, and threatening to regain the lost material with Qh4! (White loses his knight as he has to protect against the mating threat) my next move stops that, but I didn't see Qh4...
! I saw the chance to attack! Of course, Black has to deal with the threat of the pawn to stop more material from being lost...
my knight also takes part in this attack; Black would have dearly loved to have played Kf8, as it is much safer, but this move is now the only move available thanks to the knight
logical now I see it - Black needs to counterattack to have a chance in this game. But White had an interesting counter to this...
Black saves his queen...
?! It gives Black tempo, but it gives up the attack on the rook
I could have played Qh6, but I didn't want an excuse to give the Black queen to move. Besides, this move forces a trade
pawn trade - I considered Qg6, but couldn't see it turning into a successful attack
I was expecting Black to defend with the rook here (and probably cost him the game later on, as you will see)
But although this gets Black ahead in material for the first time in the game, it relinquishes centre control...
and (in my opinion) a very pretty mate finishes the game off. entertaining game! :)
Hi everyone!<n><n>I decided to take another trip down memory lane.  This game ended on 21.08.08, over a year ago.  Somehow I get struck down by passivitis yet again, but as you will see, that passive position conceals a coiled serpent in the grass.  After a normal double king pawn start my opponent plays the Patzer's Opening, although, I have to say, that Master Freddy is not averse to playing the white side of it!  The move is 2. Qh5 trying for that evergreen famous Scholar's Mate.
25. ....... Ra7 - the start of an escape from the corner for my QR.
48. ....... Nxa4 - pawn trade.
All book so far.
The exchange of Queens reduces the chance for fireworks.
I hope to gain a tactical advantage with this pin.
Black, smartly, unpins immediately.
This is an unrated game with Brigade Commander. Although I had the advantage at various points, the game was extremely sharp and I lost my way in the complications.
This is one of the strongest replies. Black retains the option of Qh4+ while developing.
This is a good spot for the Q.
Here ...Bb5 is probably slightly more active. But Black has a good game.
At this point I think I have a good game. GK computer considers Bh3 stronger, … Bh3+ 19. Kf2 O-O-O 20. Qxf4 Rxh5 21. Qxd6 Rxd6 22. Ng5 Bxg5 23. Bxg5 Be6 24. Bxe6+ Rxe6 25. Bf4 Kd7 with an even game.
not a good move. it opens the king side too soon.
attackin in the king side.
????????<n>very bad move. it opens the h file for black.
I think this is a good move. If he takes my knight I take with my pawn putting pressure on his king side with my rook.
He simply resigned as there is no hope in this position. This is a great game to study and analyze in depth and it might be fun to go through some of the comples lines.
! Black has seized the initiative and White is in trouble.
I thought the threats would force an exchange on d5, but...
So my fellow comrades decide to play the Classical Kings Indain. Most times, it ends in a tactical draw. Though I think white has the better chances for a win. This opening choice no doubt has one of our better players on the team's influence. He is an expert in the KID. At this point I was aiming for a Catalan formation with g3 and Bg2
In  a game back in 2005 Abitipower and I came to a similar position where I had played the much slower d4-d5(attempting to block out the DSB). Nowadays, Be3 is arguable the move of choice. For one it sets up the favorable Macrozy bind. According to the comments on the form page my comrades were expecting 7. d5 with a good chance that ...Nh5 and ...f5 are to follow.
!?<n>A critical moment in the game. Black has committed himself for boom or bust on the king side. Meanwhile, white still temporarily has his centre and a slight lead in development. All and all though the game is dynamically level. <n>Alternative variation: 9... Nc6 10. d5 Nd4 11. Nxd4 exd4 12. Qxd4 g5 13. Bg3 f5 [⩲]
I kinda like this move. It hits at black's most pressing weakness while at the same time adds a much needed offensive to white's game. The opening of the h-file will be of great use for me. So I am willing to concede control of the F-file to black for the time being. This is a move that I expect came as a surprise to most engaged in the game.
So far so good I have managed to frustrate my comrades on the f-file. Though they do have respectable pressure on f2 it is not enough for a break through. I would have to give them leading edge in this position. Especailly, after their next move.
!<n>The knight returns! This move is what makes 18.Kf1 work. Black does not have a discover check because of fork on his queen. Thus black will have to retreat the queen and allow white to regain the material. Still the wide open f-file dominated by the black rook keeps black in the game.
?!<n>It is hard to discredit such a naturally good looking move but this is problematic for black. #1 It temporarily lessens the pressure on f2 long enough for me to better position my DSB. #2 I really do think that 22...Qg6 followed ...Be6 or ...Bd7 is the only way out for black. <n>Alternative variation: 22... Be6 23. Rg5+ Kh8 24. Qd2 Rf6 25. Rf1 is roughly equal
+⁠−<n>Black's long standing pressure on f2 has been eliminated. While white has built a strong initiative on e5 and the g-file.
Inaccurate. Better was 4...Nc6. However, I see the point of this move.
I think Black should have played this move before-hand.
Now I regained what advantage I lost.
I don't think this move has a purpose.
I don't like this move too much, but it works.
Actually, I win the pawn this way too.
I played this instead, and let go of the f-pawn in exchange.
Black's last bit of hope lies within his Kingside, and me making two blunders in a row (maybe three).
Dance of the White King and Black Queen Game
Let the dance begin
The Texas Two Step begins
Just in case there is any uncertainty with regards to the rules of this popular game, here is a summarised version of the 'Blide Verpoinian Chess rules'<n><n>___<n>1.1 Nature and Objectives:<n><n><n>All pieces behave in the same way as they do in conventional chess, moves alternate as usual.<n><n>The objective of the game is to capture the opponent's 2 rooks (not including promoted pawns) whilst avoiding checking the opponent's king. As soon as the opponent's king is checked, the opponent wins the game. If no move can be played without checking the opponent's king, the game is a draw.<n>___<n>6.1 Special Rules:<n><n>If either player hesitates just as they are about to make a move, the opponent is allowed to cry out 'Maggot-Moose' and they will be rewarded with a free legal move of their opponents pieces. The words 'Maggot-Moose' must be said articulately; 'Magga-Moose', 'Maggom-Toos' or 'Mag-Moose' are not acceptable.<n><n>If a player temporarily leaves the game for any reason during play, it is acceptable for the opponent to slyly move pieces around at their discretion.<n><n>If for any reason, either player leaves the game before it has finished and doesn't return within exactly 5 minutes, both players must be roasted and fed to the spectators.
This move is a continuation of the 'corner-fort defense' (one of Safeway's favourite openers)
As all Jabborg fans know, Jabborg has many unique pawn openings; this particular opening 'Jabborgian Torpedoes' involves launching the front line pawns 1 by 1 in the hope of overwhelming their opponent's defences.<n><n>Safeway continues his defence as expected.
Chess analysts who have studied the Verponian chess 'corner-fort defense' have discovered that even though it is strong, it is flawed by the necessity for the king to remain in 1 position for a long time. Ancient heroes of Verponian chess were successful for their great king maneuverability - the king being a valuable weapon in Verponian chess
With another torpedo on it's way and the 'corner-fort defense' now in place, Safeway would likely begin to develop his remaining pieces
'Here is an example of a diagonal Joop - Black wins the duel.'
'Also, this position is good for black, white can't escape the diagonal joop'
In the heat of the game, Safeway misses an opportunity for the diagonal joop on e3
Once Black takes the rook, I would still have an 8 point advantage, so Black resigned.
This is my favorite line, the Yugoslav.
White resigns here. He's down a whole rook. This game shows how one simple messup in the sicilian dragon can cost the game.
The Accelerated is an opening I am trying to learn.   There are a lot of variations ( like most openings that have been or are popular ), but this is one I fear the most.  If you have better ways to play this let me know please.
The check is meaningless and helps him develop. I think black is OK here white has ways to get pressure still.
It is time to drive the queen out of the center, but he threatens the f6 pawn. So...
I think White's best move is 20. Nd6.  I wasn't sure about the best reply 20. ..., Nb5 was a possibility. But White is focused on f6 so I think I was lucky.
Queens Gambit.  I studied it 40 years ago or more (I'm 65), and play it by instinct and feel.  The last time I read a chess book was quite a while ago.
White would love it if Black chose to trade his d pawn for White's c pawn.
The Queen takes the key diagonal with the intention of a Queen sacrifice in the not-too-distant future.  What makes this especially nice is the threat of a discovered check, with the simultaneous threat of NxQ.
Strong and powerful, and I imagine White felt very confident of a denoument in his favor in the next move or two.  Instead....
! <n>as common of a move as this is, I've never seen it played against my opening before.
right here. there is an amazing attack. do you see it? I missed it for a few turns.
this is my biggest blunder of the game. thank goodness white missed an oppurtunity here.
opening up the file for an escape? not going to happen.
this is where the game really just tips in my favor
another good move for black is 24... Nc3.
White resigns here, and the game is over. I have simply too much of an advantage. up a minor, a rook and I have a completely infallable pawn run in the a column, which, if doesn't gain me a queen, will gain me one of the last two of whites pieces.
Queen's pawn.  Most of the responses to this move look pretty good for black.
White has moved the queen three times in a row.  This aids black development.
Black ignores impending doom.
An old game I lost, and I wonder where, exactly.
Is this a mistake? I play it regularly. I am aware it gives the white squares bishop, but it opens the h column (while I normally try to castle queenside, but if I can, I never got in troubles even with the h column open, because it takes white a long time to build up an attack on the kingside).<n>But he didn't play for that (and this was a surprise for me).<n><n>"This is the correct move when the knight is on f6.  It is not wrong here, just not best."
It takes a good place for the knight, I know. But I wanted to control b5, and a6 would have caused me troubles after pawn's exchange in the center. Maybe, all this is a wrong line of thinking.
"You are behind in development, and White has a strong initiative."
Still ok. But I didn't see his only purpose was to exchange my knight on e3! So I played stupidly... and from now on, the game is over.
...he would have played b4-c7, rock a7, knight x a6, rock x a6, bishop takes a6 and king takes e6. Or a lot of variants... but he played simple. And I did not see it because it was "too simple"!!!! :-(((
If the bishop takes g5, it opens the g column for me.
Hi everyone!<n><n>Here is my return match against Coach Ion in the Traxler MT.  I will be annotating that one two but this one is quite fascinating because although I lost this match there were so many pieces on both sides that were en prise!  This will be a good lesson in tactics to us all, including myself, The Beginner.   Here is the link to the game which has Gameknot Analysis:-http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=14875035&fb=1&rnd=0.8882096860666713  I will start the commentary on Move 5.
10..... Bg4 - attacks the Wicked Witch of the West who in turn feasts her glare upon Henry next move with Qa4+.
15. Nc8 - this is getting sooo drole - trouble is I have more pieces en prise than The Coach, sigh and double sigh!  There is nothing better than to trade queens as Glenda is pinned and twice attacked.
21. Nxe5 - I knew that my e pawn was gonna fall so I thought I would trade it.  But my minor pieces become trapped on the queenside.
White Resigned
Rad1?!, So far I've made some questionable rook plays this game. Obviously trying to grab the open file but black obviously has Bd5 attacking the Apawn I just abandoned in the corner. Just lost a tempo.....
fxe5?! I thought black let me slide here. Much better was Bb3 and that's what I was expecting but this move relieved a lot of tension for the moment instead of piling on the pressure. Bb3 obviously threatens my rook, white needs to keep the rook on the d file to prevent Bd4 check opening up the c file completely with tempo. But after 23. ....Bb3 24. Rd3?! Bc2 the file is opened anyway, possible pins on the e2 bishop, winning the a3 pawn, even mating threats are possible if white doesn't play it right.
I didn't calculate this into any my lines leading to the end when it was played so I thought I might be in trouble. I think a simple Bxh2 may have been better. Would it have changed the outcome? Probably not.
this is my first game ever with a player rating >1800. i was defeated, ofcourse. i learn few things in this game. i thought it is good to share. if you are expert player please comment on my worst moves. so i can learn too.<n><n>queen pawn opening, i was playing black. i chose to go for benoni opening.
indian defense opening
contd with indian defense opening....
indian defense/ benoni defense/ classical variation...
seizing half open file by rook....if you notice my position. my weakness is d6 pawn. my light bishop at c8 and knight at b8 have no good place to be positioned. i was struggling in this game to develop my light bishop and knight. i think, this is a significant problem with benoni defense. experts advise me on how to develop these pieces on the way, pls...
he placed his rook to a good position. not a harm now. but it is indirectly challenging my rook. later in game he took advantage of it. a good move in my opinion.
a brillant move in my opinion. when i was playing i didnt notice it. later when i analysed the game i understood his idea. he is making a potential pin. my queen and his rook is on same file. i completely ignored his move when i was playing. i dont have much experience in chess. it is a brillant move, making potential pin. later in the game he could take advantage of it. so it is important to place your piece at strategical position so later in the game you could take advantage. you may not see immediate benefit in such moves.
i went for capturing his weakness. my calculation was simple. 3 attackers vs 2 defenders. i am winning in this small battle.<n><n>later when i analysed the game, i felt that i should have gone for this battle. i have not developed my light bishop and i have not connected my rooks. because of this i suffered. even though my calculation was right. it was not wise to go for battle when pieces are not developed. a good lesson i learned. you watch the game you will see for yourself. how i suffered because of that...
alas!, he attacked my rook with his least army. how to defend this? i am in a big trouble. <n><n>see, my light square bishop is not developed all this while. and now i am going to lose my rook. i thought for a while. i found a escape route.
alas! he defended it...i felt sorry. i didnt see that variation. i didnt see his queen at all when i was calculating. i lost.
nothing much i could do i traded my queen. it is not good idea to trade when you are down in material....
Hoping for the pawn exchange, and thus, a commanding pawn presence on c5 and d5.
?? This loses the exchange. The rook is only a rank away from two pawns, and the Knight has just cut off his escape route.
?! This move encourages the pawn exchange, which opens up the pawn formations on the d-file; a file I control with an elevated rook.
Forcing either a defensive move that puts the Queen largely out of play, or c4, which largely puts the pawn formation out of play. It was already a lost game for White, and though I was cautious enough to remain aware, I was not worried about any real threat of counterattack.
Pressuring the Knight on e1. One of the links in this chain is bound to fail, and when it does, the whole defense will come crashing down.
And here White resigned. Despite my far lower rating, a sharp tactical blow in the middlegame followed by a commanding presence on the d-file sealed the win.
This is also Black's 'favorite', though the other day it played an 'Ultra-fianchetto': 2...g6!?
Intending, possibly, to force an advance on the Q-side.
Preventing Ng5, but I wasn't planning that move for a while yet.  It (...h6) tends to weaken Black's K-side slightly.
I did think he might try ...e5, but this capture was no real surprise.  White has a fine game at the moment.
(!?) A little bit of a puzzle, this move.  It seems to involve some vague notion of attack against h3, or maybe the light squares on the Q-side.  Later on it infiltrates White's game via a6 and becomes a bit of an annoyance.
For the moment the d-pawn is safe: White threatens a direct mate.  Recall last time I mentioned the role of short-range threats that, though easily contained in themselves, yet can help to make progress one way or another.  The mate in one is stopped easily, but it preserves the White centre for an extra move whilst at the same time reinforces the attack down the g-file.
For a while this was the standard response with leading players when it was realised that 3.c4 allowed the dangerous Icelandic gambit with 3....e6 and 3.d4 allowed the ultra sharp Jadoul gambit with 3....Bg4!
It is always a difficult decision but d3 is always very restrictive for white and while it stops Ne4 it does not allow whites bishop any real freedom to defend if need be.
As my opponent was rating higher than myself i offered a draw here. Black is more than equal and has no problems whatsoever but i thought it would be wise. My opponent declined and played.....
Possibly with the idea of Rook a4 but did not get time.
Ignoring Whites pawn play. The threat now is e4  and the king has to move and the pawn falls.<n><n>White is in a lot of trouble here, he needs to try and liquidate the position but Blacks control is too much. <n><n>34. axb  Kxb<n>35. bxc  Kxc is fairly best for him hard to suggest anything else. However if he follows up with 36. Ra6  expecting Kb7 when he can play 37.Rd6 surviving he would face diasaster with 36...kc7 when he has no checks and no way to meet 37....e4 <n><n>All of which led to white resigning here
The Queen's Pawn opening, which has a reputation for leading to slow, positional battles. Not this time!
...and Yermolinsky completes it.
This is unusual but playable. Black hopes to either get favorable variations of an Alekhine Defense type game or to be able to play an early ...d5 in one move.
Best. Black gains time attacking the d pawn.
White is opening up lines of attack.
This is the position Black sees as defensible. White has an edge in development but limited targets.
Finally...d5 in one move! Black has freed his position and is a pawn to the good.
Hoping to try the Budapest.
I know this is a known position, but not for me as black.
With a lot of complications I cannot handle, but I hope my opponent won't, either :-)
All this time I completely forgot about the d4 pawn... :-)
And black wins!
We have all seen this before....
I think i have seen this before.
He retreats with a comment about how much experience he has at this position.  I figure, maybe he has played one on gameknot so i think about trying to find it.  to see what he did.  (is that cheating???)  I think my odds are about as long at finding such a game as are his belief  (and possibly my own)  that I can pull off a win or even a draw.
i think if i take material off the board, it is too my advantage,  it makes it less complicated for me...
Black sends a defence;the White's pawn won't make it to the other side.
But this is not white's intension.
After the match-up, as normal I checked the internets and discovered this is called the "Sicilian - Grand Prix Attack". Not something I'm familiar with, again. At the time, although I was shocked to see it instead of something like Nf3, it seemed unsound to me. It looks to me like a quick d5. . .
And my opponent resigns. It was a fun game, and a good lesson in the power of pawns. Once white's pawns were gone, although he had more manoeuvrability with his major pieces, he also had no-where to hide. I believe it was this weakened defense that allowed me to dictate the game.
Introducing the "Dragadorf" (or Naja-Dragon), which for a time seemed as silly as its namesake. Black's early ...a6 suggests that he will continue ...b5  and attack along the b-file, a powerful plan both as a minority attack or simple mating attack. For a long time, however, top players considered this setup simply too slow to meet White's most aggressive option, the Yugoslav. In a sense it still is, but as we'll see Black has some concrete ideas that justify his play - at least for now!
A bit strange, but basically a good move. It is true that White has major problems with "normal" development, as c4 is no longer available and the looming ...b5-b4 will most likely force Nd5 Nxd5 exd5 when a White pawn on d5 makes Be2 somewhat less attractive. This move usefully eyes h7 in the event of h4-h5. It also allows Nce2 without blocking in the f1 bishop, a useful plan in some lines.
A terrific (and rather obvious) move, highlighting White's precarious king-queen position and also the weakness of the d4 knight (who is hanging in many lines after ...dxe4 and a few knight captures on g4 with check!). Yet another triumph of the old principle of central counterattacking against hasty wing play. White is actually lost now.
Here, White resigned as Black's threats are overwhelming. I was rather amused that Black's plan of speedy queenside invasion never transpired, and instead Black's central play and 2 bishops won the day. The game might have continued:
In this game I get a good position, but I let it slide, but I think my opponent played very well - well above his rating!
This is a usual reply, preventing e2-e4
This is the Sämisch Variation, It is named after Friedrich Sämisch, who developed the system in the 1920s.
and he strikes back aggressively on the queen-side. We have a very double-edged position.
Black cannot afford to just wait for white's attack to break through. In the above-mentioned game, black tried e7-e5
With threats of f takes on g4 oe e4, and his Rf8 comes to life. I decide to pick up the exchange at last
He takes
he takes
So I exchange, with a view to opening the h file for my Rh1
He takes back.
This looked very dangerous to me - how the heck can I stop the c pawn?
He takes back
So he takes
So he takes it
Threatening Rd2-d1+ and if 31. Kf1-e1 Nd4xf3+ wins. Time to resign I think. Pmca agrees, plus 8.71 to black now. Interesting how quickly I went from a plus position to a negative position. Many thanks for reading this, comments would be very much appreciated. Don't forget to rate the annotation with the "stars" scale please!
I'm at that point in my chess adventure that I have a few openings I feel comfortable with, and trust my tactical and positional instincts to get me through unknown lines. The French is one of those; I love its stable pawn structure and intense queenside play. However, I've learned chess "backwards" as to what is proper, concentrating on opening lines instead of endgame basis, and I often lose evenly matched endgames. Part of this is due to my limited ability to calculate long series of moves (as I'm no chess savant) and part of it is a fear of these types of endings (I'm much more comfortable mating in the late-middlegame).  So, this is exactly the type of game that I wish I had lost, or at least drawn - I made several severe severe endgame blunders that should have cost me the game, and I won only because my opponent (who had been playing extremely well) committed a more serious error than mine. In other words, a terrible way to win.<n><n>The middle game is an excellent (and surprisingly accurate) example of the subdued positional jockeying that branches off into a little used variant of the French Defense at the eighth move. The themes expressed in this game are typical themes of the French: queenside play and a stable center pawn structure by black, with a concession of space and development to white.<n><n>As always, all analysis has been supported by Crafty 20.14w32, the multi-threaded version of the Crafty engine.
This move transposes the game into the Steinitz variation of the Classical French (C11).
6. dxc5 is the most popular choice here.
This move marginalizes the white knight at the edge of the board, but alleviates the mounting pressure on the d-pawn by forcing the black queen to retreat. This drawback, however, is that this begin a long period of exile for the knight by placing it in a terrible position - always strive to centralize your knights - and white won't move him again until the 22nd move.
Not the best choice.
Bird's opening.
i do not know the name of this kind of defense, so if there is no name for this kind, let us call it Glazyrin's defense. :) why not?
i made this move very quickly, must be not hurry next time
white resigned
?!  The computer begs for this move a few tempo ago but now it's too late.
Computer considers this bad.  Probably should have maintained pressure on K-side I guess.  Anyway it's annoying counterplay.  Also computer wanted me to reply 23.b4 or d4.
Wasn't sure about this move.  It's pointless when you've already got a k-side attack and initiative is so important.  Anyway, computer doesn't like it but he played in to it so he was obviously distracted by it.  Mission accomplished.
let's destroy black center! I don't know what black has in mind, but even if he manages to make me waste some tempi with the knight i don't see how he can take the lead.
this exchange could be reasonable if it weren't for the fact that black is down in material and is exchanging his only developed piece
this is really a blunder and deserves a double question mark. Although it looks like a normal harmless developing move this is indeed the loosing move. With this bishop move black leaves b7 undefended. Noticing the knight on e5 it didn't take long for me to see the next move...
clearly the strongest, and it must be played now or black will have the chance to defend.<n>Black can't defend the double threat of mate in f7 and Qxb7-Qxa8, so the game is an easy win now.
This simply overlooks the threat of Qxf7#. I think the best defence for black was 7...Be6, when it's true i take another pawn but at least he doesn't get mated!!<n>7...Qe7?; makes no sense, after 8.Qxb7, Qxe5; 9.Qxa8 black's best reply is something like c6 (c5 just limit the scope of his dark squared bishop).
I hope black has learned something from this game. I didn't
Mini Tournament game, I'm playing black and go for the Sicilian.
The Philidor Variation with 2. Bc4, considered inferior to Main, Close, Morra Gambit, and Wing Gambit, but I have seen it several times in maybe at most a couple dozen games where I have played the Sicilian as black. Maybe it has lots of hits in the GK DataBase?
I'm not really sure what I hoped to gain by this. It seems to leave the black pawn at d5 hanging, for white can win that pawn with 15. Bxf6 Bxf6, 16. Bxd5. However, then black replies 16. ... Bxb2 and evens the material with a minor positional advantage in pawn structures.
The black pawn at d5 was truly in danger this time, but rather than defend it, black pushes his pawn to c4, blocking the white bishop's attack against d5.
Final position. With no way out, white is facing a hopeless endgame in which black has a material advantage of queen+pawn and so white resigned at this point.
thats a good move for black
here ends the Opening session
i was prepared for this move so i did....
this
Here i got his rook and he resigned.
Opening up the diagonal.
Qxf2# - wonderful checkmate - so the moral is, greedily grabbing pieces and pawns may not win the game for you. Well played both sides - @oodle3.
good development, redressing the balance of power in the centre somewhat, although black's position is still stronger
This is a quite short game I played recently. I want to test you to solve some intersting and basic positional and tactical ideas.<n>Take it as a quiz. <n>First of all, open the java window, so that you can see the flow of the game with my comments on the bottom. Flip the board, as you will be playing the black side.<n>Then, cover with a sheet the part of the screen with the moves. Don't look at the moves.<n>From time to time you will be asked to find a move on your own. When you read "IT'S YOUR TURN" you'll have to decide what move to make. MAKE SURE to have a plan behind the move you want to make, or to have the CORRECT tactical idea, otherwise IT'S LIKE YOU DID NOT ANSWER CORRECTLY. The first moves are theoretical and there will be no questions. Anyway, try to figure out what's going on.<n>There are 10 points available in total (some questions give 2 points or more, others give 1 point). At the end, tell me your score!<n>I think that players above 1800 should have few problems in analysing this game, but for those under 1500/1600 might be interesting.<n>Good luck and enjoy!
This is probably the main variation of the French Defence.
Up to now it's all theory. Anyway, before going on try to understand what's happening here. Black has almost completed development, though his pieces still need to find more aggressive posts to become really dangerous. White, on the other side, is still back in development, but if he manages to free himself he will be able to count on his strong passed h2 pawn. Black has a dynamic advantage (development, and if he can, initiative) while White has a static advantage (material and pawn structure)
IT'S YOUR TURN TO MOVE
IT'S YOUR TURN
1 point. Attacking the Queen this way, Black exchanges the last minor piece, and he will finally GET the INITIATIVE because of his powerful and active Rooks against an uncastled king and those poor undeveloped Rooks. Moreover, white now cannot take in a7 because of 19...Qc3 .<n>Not 18...Kb8? 19.Qd6!<n>Nor 18...Bc6 19. Qxa7! are good.<n>IMPORTANT: As you can see, Black is exchanging pieces even if is is down in material. You have probably been taught that when you have a material advange you should try to reach the endgame. BE CAREFUL with this approach! Don't always look for exchange of pieces when you are up with material. Instead, try to understand what is best to do in that situation! Sometimes it is necessary to fight with great determination even with a pawn up or two, because the player down in material may have some sort of dynamic compensation. In this case, for example, the more developed white pieces disappear, the bigger will be the difference in development between black and white.
IT'S YOUR TURN
2 Points, but only if you saw the variation 21.Rc1? Rd1 !! 22. Rxd1 Qxg2 !! (not 22...Qxd1? 0 points) with a quick win. Other white moves also lose badly, to you the pleasure to find them (eg. 21. Qc1?)<n><n>Look at the position. Despite being 1 pawn down, Black has a firm initiative now, because of his strong and very active Rooks and Queen ready to penetrate in the enemy camp.
IT'S YOUR TURN
IT'S YOUR TURN. Calculate until a great advantage for black.
White resigns here. I had prepared 24. Kg1 Qb2!! with the mortal threat 25...Rdd2. Neither 25.Rc1  Qxc1! 26.Kxf2 Rd2  etc. nor 25.Rb1 Rg2 ! would have saved white.<n><n>2 points if you saw all this. (There may be other winning variations: 2 points if you found one of these instead, but 0 points if you excanged Queens).<n><n>Hope you enjoyed and liked the experiment. Let me know!
I've never played this variation
At least I'll get a pawn and disturb his king.
I'm down 2 pawns. If I let him develop any pieces I've lost.
I'm pleased that my opponent let me play it out.
I chose not to take the gambit but I am not sure this is book.  (I will have to wait to see what the computer says after the game is analyzed.)
Nope!  Not a mistake.  I think he has tried this before.
Time to trade Queens.
The first game on GameKnot. I joined a game with kammersl. The opening I chose was C41 (Philidor Defense).
The result is a lone pawn e5. White has lost the center and also got a double pawn at file c.
I was expecting 7. ...Bf5. The biggest problem with this move isn't that it just drops a pawn for no visible compensation, it's that it cedes the h1-a8 diagonal without a fight.
Now if 24. ...Nd5  25. cd5 conjures up a dangerous passed pawn phalanx right in the heart of Black's position.
Black's eyes get big at the prospect of 26. Bc5?? Nc5 winning the Rook. In stead White improves his position while aborting the threat.
Black hopes to whip up a K-side attack behind this sac.
Hi everyone!<n><n>After 9 successive losses I have finally managed to win a game.  In mitigation, most of the losses were against 2000+ oppo!  This victory came against my buddy dmaestro.  He seemed to have a slight edge in the middlegame but somehow, after a late tactical melee he ended up dropping the exchange as a result of a pin.  This game is another Latvian.  I kick off with the standard e4 and my opponent responds with the equally standard e5.  Another standard Nf3 follows and then ......
22. ....... Bxd4+ - queen trade.
24. ..... Rxf7 - dmaestro thinks he has won back his piece and is a pawn up but ......
25. Bxd5 - with this move he has another think coming.  His rook is pinned and he will drop the exchange next move.  If he takes the pawn on b2 attempting to win back a pawn for the exchange then he will cop Old Matey on e8.  I woke up this morning to find that Dmaestro had waved the white flag - a pleasant awakening indeed!
Black has the biggest challenge in this new opening. Its been discussed between Freddy and I if it isn't worth taking the perpetual from blacks point of view. Black has one critical line chance though it doesn't look all that appealing either. Lets start the game on move 6 where the conditional moves run out.
The king's pawn opening
My standard reply
The berlin.My favorite defense against the Ruy.
Black has a good position.
Black bears all his pieces on the f2 pawn.
Black now has two extra pawns,but he should win.
Pirc Defense
My knight will fall with h6 and my queen has lost it's attacking diagonals.
He resigned in this position as i would promote and checkmate ihm
Spassky enters the Tartakower variation of QGD.  Spassky's favorite defense to the QGD, with which at that time he had never lost a game.
wrecking Black's pawn structure.  on 20...de 21 Bc4 Qe7 22 Rfel Nf6 23 f3.   Tal proposed 20...c4, but after 21 Qh3 Qf7 22 Bg4 Re8 23 Bh5 g6 Be2 Black has problems.
if 23...Nb6 24 Qb3 wins
Adorjan gambit (E32) of the classical Nimzo-Indian defense.
?  R and B for a rook?  Oh, right, RxBe5 makes it a nice bloody exchange, ending with black up two pawns of increasing value.
King's Gambit!This opening is very exciting
!?Black gives the pawn back to catch up in development
Opening the center.
Black is down a pawn,but he still has drawing chances.
This position is absolutely drawn
White will win.It is a matter of technique.
Advancing the passed pawn.
Hastening the end.55...Kg8 would have lost slower.
Black is completely lost,but he fights on till the bitter end.Mate in 5
Inducing the closed variation
Now this is a mistake, since black does not compensate for the loss of activity on his DSB. And yet, my opponent pushed me a lot to show the tactical advantage white gained after movement 15.
An all-out advance. But Queen is trapped, although not much danger awaits her. Check white position and see how constricted it is now
It took me a long time to figure out this (I think is the best) move, since it was so simple I didn't see it, as obsessed I was with leaving that rook undefended. As simple as it is, I feel like it was one, if not THE one, best moves I made. It gives me exactly the times I need to make the final attack.
Bc1 would have lost the game, after Nf3+
An irregular opening played by myself. I usually play 1.e4, to create a game where sacrifices and beutiful combonations are aplenty. When I played 1.d4, I created a slow positional game, which most masters prefer.<n><n>I however, wanted to try something new, and played 1.d4.
? I overlooked Nxe4, because of my plan to win the exchange. However, I have a reputation of my swindling, which actually gave the material advantage to me in this game.
Now the King can't avoid a mate. This game is a decent example on how to win a lost game. 1. Get the initiative. This is the first move. Always importand when starting an attack. You may have to sacrifice a pawn or  two. 2. Attack. Threaten material. It may make him intiminated. 3. Win. I can't explain how a swindle actually works. This is the general idea.
regaining the pawn before I loss it. While at the same time creating a critical weakness in the king position. This weakness becomes important later on
heading to f4 but white has a great tactical reply
forced but the black pawns on the queen side have potential to rip things wide open. Also to black's advantage is the pawn majority on the king side in the event that this becomes a two way horse race.
first real inaccuracy, though not a real game changer. For one it hinders the rook and add no real value to white. I wonder if Oddlord looked at 26. Ng4!? leading to further exchanges. Of course also worth looking at for white is stopping the queen pawn storm for good with 26. b4 when shifting everything to the king side and playing for a draw is inevitable.
?! another small but important inaccuracy. I guess idea is to exchange and simplify but this give black two strong and mobile pawn chains.  I would have played 27. Bb4 rf7 28. d5 heading for d5 to liquidate an important strategic weakness
The idea is to stop the queen side pawn storm but black has a dagger up his sleave. Best to me is 28. Rxf6 gxf6 29. Then b4
!! Black seizes the initiative and with all of white's pieces on the back rank black may have time to convert his space advantage into a winning one
white looks ok by sealing the door on the queen side. However, if I can steer this game into a king+pawn ending I have strong wining chances. So I seek to exchange pieces then race to the center with my king.
with the king in the center and the extra pawn on the kingside this is a won endgame for black
I'm prety sure this is not a theory, but I still find the h4 move really precise. It's idea is playing early h5. It wouldbe badfor black's pawn structure, cause after me taking on g6 he would most certainly have to take with the f pawn. So the kingside would be easier to be attacked later. Usually there is a knight on f6, who prevents the h5 move. But now if black plays 5... Nf6 I'll play 6. e5 on the spot and still be able to play h5 in a while.
Now the pawn couldn't be promoted and there is nothing else to be done on the queen side. Black has to defend himself.
Hi everyone!<n><n>Found this old game to give me and Master Freddy's long-suffering opponents some inspiration.  I take my hat off to Pearl, the Class C player in this game and I am about to play through it to see how she managed to overcome The Master Mater who was an Expert at the time this game was played.  Freddy kicks off with the Reti Opening which is Nf3 - this move develops a piece and hits out at e5.
2. c4 - transposes into an English Opening.
5. Nc3 - but a pawn trade takes place and now black's queen is gonna be pestered - she retreats to the safety of d8.
6. Be2 - with such a lead in development I bet you are wondering, how on earth does black manage to pull off an Expert Victory?  Well, read on.
33. Rxb1 - Freddy is no doubt mighty glad to see the back of his Wicked Witch of the West, the BQ.
46. Bd4+ - he plays it now but it is too late.
53. ..... Kf5 - Freddy realised that this was gonna happen and waved the white flag.  I guess this is a good example of how to save a lost game!  I will soon be studying Dana Mackenzie's How to Save Lost Postions so I am glad I went through this game. Pearl frustrated Freddy enormously and I think this could have resulted in Freddy missing that tactical shot which should have nailed the game down in his favour so all credit to Pearl for pulling this one off!  Hope you have all had an enjoyable read - I have!  Bye for now - Joanne
Developing pieces is the most important part in the opening.
knight is trapped, but it doesn't matter.
only choice
only choice
for this
The Sveshnikov Variation.
Black has lost the plot. This pawn is not going anywhere and can be ignored. He needed to get his rooks into the game.
Black opens with KP.
This is the opening of the Sicilian defense. I've used this a several times and had good success. Conversely have been defeated almost every time I've faced it. Here black intends on denying white control of the center or exchanging a flank pawn for a center pawn. From Wikipedia, "17% of all games between grandmasters, and 25% of the games in the Chess Informant database, begin with the Sicilian.".. so it should probably be something every serious chess player should study.
White wants early control of the center and has the initiative, so black concedes that for now. I thought giving up the the center early might be unexpected for my opponent. (Note: I've tried this strategy on 2000+ players and it NEVER works). The idea will be to attack the center from the flank later with force later. The DSB and the queen side knight will apply pressure on the d4 square, since the e file pawn has passed and can't defend. Black's DSB turns out to be pivotal to this game once it is in fianchetto position.
...and white takes it back. I live the fact that the DSB is staring down at the white queen side rook; although this really doesn't materialize into anything. More importantly I think 4...cxd4 leaves the white d4 pawn needing defense by a minor or major piece. Probably inconvenient for white.
so I put the knight in play. This has the temporary affect of reducing the tension on d4, but changes white's focus to the hanging pawn on e4.
Check. White has successfully implemented a flank attack and now controls d4 with tempo. Look at how important the DSB has become. White has no counter attack potential on the black king and black has really taken center control. Note: If black takes d4 with the bishop instead of the queen, it sets up a potential pin opportunity for the white rook. The queen is much more adept here.
white doesn't see it... white is interested in lining up his queen and rook along the 7th row, but too late for that.
There's the queen sacrifice. I owe this one to my club (WoW)... we were just talking about queen sacrifices for advantage in a discussion list and started me thinking. <n><n>In the best case scenario for white, he loses the a7 rook. Worst case the game is over.<n><n>White chooses to resign. I would have liked to play this out, but white would have been seriously behind in material. <n><n>Thanks for the game shambobala and setting up this MT. I am looking forward to playing this tournament as white!
30...Nd4  This is my attempt to exchange a few pieces with the hope of pairing the rooks and the passed pawn against the queen.  It seemed to be a formidable threat, so that explains White's 32nd move.
According to the variation white should have played 4. h4.
6. d5 was good as it opens up the right side of black but the next moves by white force him into defense.
I don't mind not castling. Just my way of playing. So this move didn't hurt me much.
Fewer knights are easier to play against in such an open game and trying to reduce the defense of white's e pawn.
The rook here is trapped.
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(Book Move)
(-3.63) INACCURACY - Your position is getting even worse - you are now losing. The best line was 23. Rb2<n>Alternative variation: [BEST MOVE (-2.98)] 23. Rb2 Ra3 24. Qd1 Qb5 25. Bg5 Bxg5 26. Nxg5 h6 27. Nf3 b3   $19<n>Alternative variation: [INACCURACY (-3.63)] 23. Rfa1 Rxa2 24. Rxa2 Ra3 25. Rxa3 bxa3 26. Nd2 Qa7 27. Qa2 Bd3 28. Nb3   $19
In the quick post review of this game, I questioned this move thinking that White could play exc5.  I was thinking Qa5+ however if White blocks with the queen then he could be able to hold this extra pawn for a while.
Here White castles into my king side attack, however I have to be very careful over how Black works those strong centered knights.  My first step of action is to reduce the strenght of these knights and continue to mobilize my pieces against the castled king.
At this point it is hard to find good moves for White.  Black's goal is to clean up a few more pawns and then trade off the Queen for a Rook and start pushing pawns when it will be impossible for White to defend.
This is strong!
and so i stick with what im comfortable with the bishops opening
i reply with pawn take to undermine his middle and now there is an opening for my DSB plus he cannot recapture this pawn and there is no current threat to my LSB,
i found this reply to be really passive. protecting an isolated pawn. who can only be reconnected to a line with a pawn whos now behind 2 minor pieces. thought it was also pretty much putting his DSB to sleep for a few turns as  i had no intention of nxd4 yet id rather keep a high pawn even if he is doubled
this will prevent the pawn from advancing and my opponent cannot checkmate with just queen and rook. so its a good time gain defense
stacks his rook. but thats 1 tempo i gained cause i got ready for it last turn
oops the pressure of blitz. my opponent was under 2 minutes left i had a comfortable 4:30 left i had played pretty fast this game, i guess having repeatedly played the same opening over and over you start seeing when the opponent isnt replying optimaly.
hanging bishop with a time gain my opponent is pretty much in trouble now
at this stage i thought a while i could see he would dive his bishop to h3 and all i have to do is play Rff2 and i will have enough cover over the g square for all 3 of his pieces. i think his crumbling empire has lost the strenght to deal the finishing blow
anticipated reply
hmm this move froze me a few moments. and i judged that im up 7 so ill let him take the knight with the queen and he will not have the time to replace his queen in front of his rook to mate me.
i think my opponent was playing too aggressive at the detriment of his safety.   we see the importance of not moving pawns on your castle side.
swaps out his LSB didnt understand. i saw this as him giving up his queen  or im pretty sure i will checkmate him
In preparation for b4, winning black's initial flank pawn.
In a unrated game you can give your opponent a chance at winning with out effecting your rating or theirs, Game was accepted and white opened with the d4 opening. I opened as black with b5, with the plan to fianchetto my bishop on my Queen side.
I develop my Q side N.
N takes Bc6
pawn takes back the N
B takes B
R takes R
Q takes R+
I think this is the best reply. Comments welcome!!
None of black's pieces can move except his bishop!
?? Checkmate in 2. See if you can find it.
...but my opponent is wise to this.
Now I have a two pawn advantage.
I foil another promotion attempt...
No escape for the pawn. See how isolated pawns fall quite easily? That explains 38. ... exf5.
Queen's pawn game? I don't know of any other opening name for this.
I could have taken the pawn at a2, but that would leave my knight with no safe retreat and tie my queen down to guard duty. So I put him in place to be a thorn in white's side til the end of the game.
I think I need a 2nd queen. What else are passed pawns good for?
I have played various games against "we are the eggmen", always was a good interesting open game
i caculated from here and saw even with the queen hanging I could try to get his position worse while opening places for my queen
done, did not see his next move
....... a DRAW with the Master Mater!<n><n>Hi everyone!<n><n>This is my longest ever game with Master Freddy and I am pleased to say that after 50 losses I finally opened my account with the Master Mater who is not called that for nothing!  Operation Joblock finally triumphed.  Anyhow, this marathon started off with Freddy playing 1. c4 which is the English Opening.
19. cxd5 - interesting recapture, exd4 would have undoubled the centre pawns but Freddy is probably planning an attack down the c column.
45. Rxh5 - a queen trade has occurred as I mentioned in my note on move 30.
3. ......... g6?  An unusual way to decline the gambit.  It just loses a pawn.  Best is 3. ......... Qe7 which is the Macgregor-Chigorin Variation which regains the pawn but leads to retarded development.
14. ........... 0-0-0 ?! He is castling into it.  My position at the moment looks innocent but I notice his castled position is rather draughty.  My next two moves take full advantage of this.
The long-awaited K-side attack begins.
So far everything standard
Gearing up towards it.  If it doesn't work atleast i have development
Slav Defense, my least favorite defense to play against after 2. c4. This is the most popular response for Black next to 2...e6
My team members give me a hard time for playing this opening. There's nothing wrong with it except that it's tame and often drawish. Sounds like my perfect opening
Black naturally takes back with the pawn
Just normal development
This is where I had my first think of the game. Black's goal is to capture the knight on f3 and damage White's pawn structure. If I take with the e-pawn, my d-pawn is now isolated. Taking with the g-pawn is an option but it would be harmful if White were to castle Kingside.<n><n>However, this isn't the strongest move in this position
I think this position is drawn with best play from both sides. White doesn't have any advantages besides the extra pawn.<n><n>My focus in this endgame is on getting a more active rook, a passed pawn, and a more active king.
White takes advantage of the opportunity presented by him
White offers a trade of rooks, which would magnify the pawn advantage. When ahead in material, try to trade pieces!
However, this gives white a clear advantage
Black makes this move purely out of frustration. This trade of rooks dooms Black
Black resigns. It's been a while since I've annotated a game so I hope you all enjoyed it!
5. exd5 - pawn trade.
19. ..... Ng6 - this move allows me to win another pawn.  You will see how.
22. Bb3 - this move threatens Nxh7#.  It is amazing how, even in the late middlegame, Old Matey can appear out of nowhere and catch you unawares!
22. ...... Ne5? - not the best - this will now drop a piece. 22. ...... d5 would have just lost another pawn.
A slightly disappointing, but very relieving end of this good and somewhat scary game.
My opponent starts off with the King's pawn opening. At this point, I decided to play an unusual, but well-known opening.
This wasn't one of the lines. 2.Nf3 and 2.d4 are continuations for this defence, and 2.b4 is the Wheeler Gambit.
This is another key detail about this game. My opponent created light square weaknesses that 1) he can't cover with his Bishop; 2) it is almost impossible for his Queen to cover these weaknesses in time.
I definetely tried to get rid of the Queen (or chase it away).
This leads to the key factor of this game, the 8th rank. When White played the wrong rook, he lost his control of the rank which I have a forced mate in two on. Also, White's King's escape squares were lost when I played 27.Qd5.
So White resigned while I had two ways to mate him. White had the right idea, but he should have played 29.R6a5.
I can't remember what prompted this unwonted early Queen move, when f3 looked such an attractive square for the Nd2.  Perhaps I planned a quick Qg3, attacking g7 and vacating the f3 square for the N.  For now, though, the Q interferes with the development of White's minor Q-side pieces.
Either Black takes the pawn and exposes himself to White's Q or he leaves it alone and it forms a thorn in his side.
these are the kind of breaks, black is looking for... already, black had the advantage of d5, exd5, exd5, Bb3, and Nc6 or whatever... black is gaining the initiative here; best for white was d4, cxd4, etcetera... now after Ne7 and d5, black is better...
Black has no choice, but to take.
And Nxc7! - winning a pawn and queen for the bishop - a lovely tactic: I came across this in 'Chess Tactics for kids' and it is rather good. And a rather good family fork.
gxh3 is okay, but it opens the line for the rook, so I just played g3.
Unfortunately, he doesn't see this.
I missed this move.
Checkmate next move. This was a lucky win.
...this powerful sacrifice! It turns out that my central pawns will keep rolling forward, while black's pieces are too unwieldy to help.
24. ... Kxe6 leads to 25. Nc5+  (here is where the knight comes in!) Kd6 26. Rf6#. But this move also loses. Notice how the black pieces are passively watching on, while the black king is struggling beneath the white pieces.
Hi everyone - nice just to write about a win for a change.  I was playing against a guy called Andy who had a similar rating to myself.  Andy played very well but somehow I managed to get a rook onto his second rank and that piggish rook made slop of one of his pawns and eventually more and more material dropped, until I was able to crown my a pawn.  Andy resigned on the grounds of ruinous loss of material but Freddy, who looked at this game said I had a mate in 3 - more on that later.  Anyhow - I face the Sicilian and I play an unusual 3rd move, Bc4 instead of the standard pawn exchange on d4.
20. Rc7 - after black's plausible Bb7 putting pressure on e4 I decide to take the opportunity to invade the 7th rank with my rook.  This is called a "Bone in the throat", hence the title of this game.  With my opponent it really does choke him!
So this was another in my series of matches with the lovely penelope80
I wheel out my trusted Sicilian - very appropriate while playing an Italian beauty!
For the time being she follows the main line.
Another logical development move.
She takes.
She takes back, threatening my bishop on d7. I could just protect with Ra2 and white has very little in return for being a piece down, but I saw something even better.
But she takes advantage of a slight weakness on d5.
I gross blunder in a lost position.
White resigns.<n><n>Many thanks for reading my annotation. Please rate it on the star system and leave a comment ot two to let me know how I am getting on. Until next time dear reader!
Here I am a little bit lost.<n>{This is a typical position for the Caro-Kann. White has a miniscule space advantage but it is hard for either side to find a coherent plan.}
{This move is a positional error. It allows white to play Ba5, forcing an exchange of bishops. With his passive Bishop gone, the king-side advance would have significantly better prospects.} <n>I am not sure about is this a positional error. I can not say the black bishop is better than the white one. Actually in my after game analysis i found out that in Timoshenko - Danilov game in 2000 the black made this move and the white did not tried to exchange the bishops.
{After this, the game is plain lost. The last moves just prolong the game a bit to lose it in a more favourable time for league calculations.}
Al and I have had a running argument over the French for about 20 years now. Against 1. e4 he plays other defenses so seldom they're not even worth mentioning, and his knowledge of the various lines of the French is almost encyclopedic. In other words, when we have this little argument he's usually the one who wins.
A basic defense....
He tries to make good out of it
and I win but missed a few good opportunities
This internal league game between Gertjan Van der Hoeven and Rob Witt was played at the Dutch Club, Caissa, and was sent to me recently in relation to the opening. Some of the club's players are familiar with and have tested the opening in club matches. This particular one is a feast of tactical devices and is well worth studying. With the exception of the analysis to White's 16th move, the notes are extracted from the game's annotation by Rob Witt.
Relying on the fact that the knight is pinned to the queen. But it is another slight error: As Witt points out in his game notes; relatively best here was 17.Bxe4 Qxe4 - although this would leave black quite happy with the position.<n>But in fact Black has an excellent move here which he pointed out after the game: 17...Nb4! After 18.Kb1 Nxd3 19.cxd3 Rxf3! leads to major simplifications when Black should win.
In an excellent annotation, Witt points out that 21...Ne2+ is not a 'real' threat: It should be answered by 22.Kd1! when after 22...Nf4!? 23.Rxf4 Qd4+ 24.Kc1 exf4 looks about equal.
At this point black is two pieces up but White has the initiative. It is very unfortunate that Black is just about to make a terrible blunder. He explains that it was not even an impulsive move; but played after a few minutes thought - a complete 'black-out'. <n>Under normal circumstances, Black would have played the forced 27...Qg6 and after 28.Qxe5+ there are two possible continuations: [A] 28...Bf5 [probably weakest] although after 29.Qxd4 Kh6 matters are still unclear because of White's many pawns.<n>[B] 28...Nf5 [best I think] 29.g4 Qa6!? [Fritz] and who can be sure how this game would have ended.
[??] An unfortunate conclusion to a great game - but who hasn't ever made such a blunder?
Black resigns. <n>Nominally speaking, he has sufficient material for the queen. But his luck has entirely deserted him: Having just made a terrible blunder he then also finds that his pieces are too scattered to survive in this position.
...and he evens the game.
At any rate, he has left his pawn open, so I take it.
This was not the best move to make. While it does directly threaten my queen, it is also the move that gives me control over the rest of the game. Notice how his queen does not move after this, and I go from responding to his moves to making offensive plays.
He leaves another of his pawns unprotected, so I take it. After I made this move, he resigned. <n>A good way for white to make a comeback of sorts from here on out is to reactivate the queen. If this were me, I'd move the queen back to d3. This both protects the rook and forces black out. Then either you exchange queens (black does Qxd3, and rook takes the black queen) or else black moves the queen somewhere else and white regains control.
black chooses to play his pawn. Why noty his Knight to e7? rRule 1: play your knights first. Rule 2: Be careful about making pawn moves, especially at the bebginning of the game. This pawn move would latyer on in the game put Black King in a dangerous position.
is this a good move?
Black lost a knight. Not looking good for black....
A lazy reply to the English.  The subsequent forcing sequence will leave black behind in development.
Early though it is, white not only leads in development, but retains considerable scope for transpositions or creativity.
Black is winning the exchange, but his materialistic approach is the antithesis of class, and will prove to be his undoing.
"Black is after peanuts," said Kitrich, "when in reality he has all kinds of 'tsuras'."
Question: can black hold the position after this move, or is he lost...?
Kitrich said of the pawn storm, "some the most enjoyable moments in chess are when the game plays itself."
I ask again, Is black busted, or has he a defense?
This move of black's sets the stage for a continuation devastating in its coldness, as the north wind lays waste the garden.
A move of absolutely surpassing class.  But does black have a chance if 31...Kf7?
so far so good ;)<n>I almost always play this part with white.
well I didn't expect this trade so soon, but my queen is now active and I'll leave it standing here untill I find the need to move it again.<n>It is in no danger of being attacked on the first 3 moves.
Ruy Lopez, Berlin Defense, C65
Lasker would never play 4...Bd6, as he would say it does the "work" of immobilizing the d7 pawn, the c8 bishop, and the a8 rook.  Black's lack of mobility in this game, due primarily to this "stuck" move, cost him the game in the end.
Rather than keeping tension in the center, I decided to gain a central space advantage, since it is one of the infamous 3 S's in the Chinese school of chess opening principles--space, structure, and strategy--as per Liu Wenzhe's marvelous book entitled, "The Chinese School of Chess: The unique approach, training methods, and secrets."
Black moved this knight 4 times before exchanging it for this White knight which only moved 1 time...
Notice too how many times this knight has moved in the game, and now it is gone, replaced by the bishop which repeats its lazy leitmotif of immobilization and obstruction...
The point of this game is to give you some lessons in end game. if you want to improve your end game i suggest looking through this game and see how i won as white. I made a many mistakes in the opening and middle game but the end game is a place where i can win with my theories. How ever i am not a pro in end game so i could have missed some moves and if you see a better way for white to play,please comment because i'd love to learn new stuff as well.
g4. In the end game you'd want to get a passed pawn. Passed pawns are extremely dangerous in the end game and this is how white creates a passed pawn. after g4,h4,g5 black can choose to exchange the pawn or just play it to h4, but white will have a passed pawn after that. you see when you create a passed pawn you look on where you have more pawns then black,then exchange and in the end you will have 1 passed pawn.
My opponent isn't that experienced in end game theories so he decides to just attack the pawn but that isn't a good move white will just play g5 and the bishop will have to move back. so what should black instead play? well this game looks kinda lost for black now. white has the center and is about to get a passed pawn so maybe Bf7 would be a little better.
now white has a passed pawn,this passed pawn will win the game for white.
for some this position looks like a draw but in this kind of position you need to ''scan'' the board. look on what your advantages are and use them to win. White's advantage in this position is that he has the center and black's pieces are very passive,king protects pawn on d5,so does the bishop while blockading the passed pawn on g6. How ever the tricky part is how white should proceed. Well in this bishop ending game white should focus on taking advantage that he has a passed pawn and so...
quickest way to get rid of that passed pawn on g6 how ever now white can proceed with this move...
I resigned....
And the standard reply.
Basic king pawn opening
i think this was called ruy lopes or so but i couldn't recall how it was countered
i played this move as i was remembering a situation where black draws his queen pawn away from the centre and gets the queen in the middle \unfortunately for me this is played if the second white knight is not developed
this is not a blunder it's a crime :) i simply left my queen unprotected. Anyway it was the beginning of a torment for me so i decided to try and get at least a draw out of this
the check with the queen would have been better idea as it later turned out this was a disastrous move for white. And it basically is a poor move to play when you have castled king side
castle is always a good idea when there is nothing better to be done and i didn't wanted to exchange pieces after all i was a queen down
Good Game!<n>Congratulations!
I believe this game shows the importance of holding on to the initiative.<n><n>e4 - my standard opening, usually leading to some variation of the scotch game, which I prefer as it leads to an open game
opens with the Sicilian, one of the most popular black responses
A bit surprised with the queens move, as this makes it blocked behind the c pawn, and losing control of the black diagonals. Also doubled c file pawns is not that bad, as they can exert influence on d5, and help with the eventual pawn break. Perhaps he was hoping to take out e4 for an easy kill.
easy enough to defend with the d pawn, strengthening the center and also opening my DSbishop.
I could see black was trying for play on the queen side, hence decided to move the rook to defend the b-file in preparation of a pawn push along the b file, to cramp the black pieces on the queen side. I should probably have moved b3, with the queen supporting a2, and then move Ra1 to b1. Rf1 to b1 locked in the rook on the a - file
By exchanging his bishop, black is ahead in exchanges, but he has also lost any chances at a queen side attack, allowing me to concentrate on my attack. I am 2 points down, but in return, black has to dance to my tune.
opening the queen side for his attack too late, without considering defence options. I think he should have concentrated on defending the king side rather than launch a counter attack. So I just ignored it as I could now smell blood
Black launches a weak attack a few moves too late, and a few pieces short.
The KID classical main line. A very sharp opening in which White usually attacks the Q-side while Black tries to smash through on the K-side.
An unusual move and not a very good place for the Queen.
Liquidating the center and opening the f-file.
This is adopted so that black is not left with an isolated d pawn which gives white a clear target and plan. Of course this move has the disadvantages that white will gain a bit of time attacking the black queen and the black pawn on e6 will mean that black will have to develop the LSB via ...b6 and Ba6/b7
Bird's Opening.
Hoping for c4 next move and if black takes back, I take with my knight and have a temporary outpost on c4.
It seems my opponent was too.
Hoping to force a queen trade with 23...Qb4 24. Qc3 Qxc3 25. Bxc5 <n>If queen b7, then rook a7 wins a piece.
Offering queen trade.
My opponent accepts.
It was only a matter of time.
Continuing to undermime White's centre.  Although Black's Queenside is undeveloped, with an extra piece and the centre about equal, Black must be better in this position
Following the well known strategy of exchanging pieces if you have a material advantage
Although the position is theoretically won for Black, I wasn't at all clear as to how best it should be played out
I would not offer a trade of queens when I am down with material and have some pressure. This trade makes it easier for white. Maybe Ng3, R? and then Ne4 were it finds an even better position than on f5!
This was my worst game so far.  White easily developes and keeps his king safe while black concentrates on a futile effort to develop his dark squared bishop ignoring king safety.
This was a terrible mistake and a waste of time.  The whole game is centered on my getting my bishop developed.
Also a mistake but the game is over and black wins.
Here playing black on an italian game. Blitz game timed on 5min + 15.
Well no choice to lose my bishop. My king side is not well developed enought to try a counterattack on this side.
Now the threats against the Q gain time.
White has a huge lead in development and Black is in real trouble.
?? The fatal blunder but if ...Qg6, Re1Black is still lost.
wins the two rooks for the exchange.
Alternative variation: 22... Nc6 23. Qf1 Rxe2 24. Rf7+ Kg8 25. Nxa8 Rf2 26. Rxf2 Bxf2 27. Qxf2 Bf5 [+⁠−]
black resigned
I offer pawn as sacrafice for development in a dutch-ish gambit opening
Van't Kuijs opening (A00), is a opening that does not give out central control. (For anyone that does this opening: You can still play it, but you have to perform an entire opening sequence that helps you gain control of e4,d4, e5, d5.)
I didn't like this move and the reason is that your opponent wouldn't magically play the f-pawn on their second move. It is suicidal.
I begin to develope the rest of my pieces.
To the least interest for me, his pieces are still well guarded.
Because of 37...d5?!, he took the chance to try and regain what he lost.
Threatenes 43.Rxf1, but the only sucess with this move is the start of my rook
Abandoning the Rook would have killed my game.
This is basically the end of White.
I would have ended the game faster if I did the Staircase.
This game lasted two months and changed the way I played chess.
this was my second game against a well rated player, at the time he was 1801. i show an example of a good looking smothered mate. he was evidentlly a bit upset that he fell for an obvious move. this however does hold some merit and has a good look to it so it would be good to analyse.i took the white pieces.<n><n>e4 the move i will almost always open with
my opponent had already played me and lost so i think in playing the caro-kahn he was trying to throw me off gaurd in thinking perhaps i would not know it.
this is in standards of the opening book. when black follows with d5 white will keep a good center with a pawn advance to e5
this is another book move with a bishop attaking a later weak pawn. once white has developed this move may be a cause for concern.
white is in no immediate threat so a continuation of development is the best choice here.solidifying the center
this is still a book move. black tries to compensate the center
i saw this move without any worry
thexchange looked good for black, this way i would have a better game if black takes the pawn
development
many players would think this was illogical but it is ok for white. an attack on the kingside is forming
black fails to see what i have planned
A good reply (if you want to play a classical game)
Black now has an open file against White's King, but no development to exploit it.
This wins more material, as Black has no way to defend c5 a second time.
This is a good move.  White can fight for the d file, but not easily while the f4 pawn is loosely defended.
This gains the tempo needed to fight for the d file.
This was a non rated, Sicilian Defense game for tutoring purposes, between my friend Ajay (grey_sparrow) and myself, Scott Miller (faithfulltrav).
So 1. e4 c5 marks the Sicilian Defense, a very tactical defense filled with potential for both sides.
So Ajay, as you mentioned in one of your comments (now deleted due to comments posted afterward), you noticed on the openings website I sent you to, that the bishop is seldom brought out early in the Sicilian, and when it is, the results are not good for White. Here's why: In this early stage in the opening, you don't know what squares will be best for the bishops, and you know the knights are best on c3 & f3. The best squares for the bishops is determined by the pawn structure and the other pieces (especially pawns). So it is best to move the knights out, and see what develops in the pawns and pieces before moving the bishops. It turns out this was not the best square for the bishop. The consequences are evidenced in 2 ways: 1. I forced you to move the bishop a 2nd time, gaining development for me and losing it for you. 2. More important, after your later Qe2, the bishop had very little space to move to, so I cornered and slayed him (poor guy).
This is the Sicilian, Anderssen Variation.
(?) You might have expected 8. ... a6 9. Ba4 b5 10. Bb3 c4 11. Ba2. While not winning the bishop, this would have seriously impeded your LSB. Yet the line I played was stronger: 8. a6 9. Ba4 c4, the move you stated was a surprise! It's important in chess to look at what I call "crazy moves". It's the moves that are ridiculously outlandish, that are frequently the best! For example, in this game: 7. ...Kf8! & 9. ... c4! (especially Kf8).<n><n>For more on "crazy moves" study the games of masters such as Bobby Fischer and José Raúl Capablanca. To make some of the moves they made, they definitely would have seemed insane. But the analysis that followed proved they were solid moves.
There is the move! Your bishop is trapped (though not yet attacked, you know it's coming and he has no escape)!
(???) Now the question mark. On every move, think, "Can he attack me in any way? Can he check me?" You may have thought that on your last move, I don't know. But scenarios change every move you make. Remember, as opposed to OTB Chess, you have days (or in the case of this game, 2 weeks!) to make each move. That's a lot of time, so take the time to think it through!
So now I have 2 minor pieces in exchange for 2 pawns! Definitely a won game for Black.
This is my most typical opening.
So I was a pwn down- at the beginning game.
ıt look variation of (Ruy lopez) spanish
The importance of these attack is middle control.İt looks Black has advantage but it is not.Two pawn of the middle is allow the set up a good game for white and also in future the black bishop also lock down in g7
qxa6 is very dangerous for black defend side.
This match is a training game with my teammate kvikas.  We welcome all comments and suggestions for improved play.
All book so far...
unexpected!  I think top play was Bxf6 instead.  Black now has a few choices in how to respond.  I can either exchange pieces and win a pawn, or just win a pawn and see what happens.
More and more unusual.  When you're down points you should trade pawns, not pieces.  We also don't want to trade bishops for pawns if we can help it. I expected White to flee or perhaps trade.
Good idea getting the rook into the game.
This move represented a huge blunder on White's part and I didn't see it.  Qxc3 would have been a huge play for Black!  It would threaten the rook with capture and a follow up of Ng3+!!  The top play for White was Qe3.
thanks to kvikas for a good game.  Appreciate your comments.
This game is a Torre attack, where I played a less critical line than the line 3...c5, however, still gives Black a solid game after the most trying continuation 4. Bxf6.  My 2100 rated opponent, enters into this line, then let's off the accelerator with 5. e3, instead of the obvious 5. e4, with a central space advantage.  The position that results features a good example of play against an isolated d-pawn.
Modern theory regards inmmediately striking White's center with 3...c5 as the most critical test of White's opening strategy.  After 4. e3 Qb6 5. Qc1 Black gets a good game with 5...Ne4.
White adopts a modest setup, choosing to establish a stable center before undertaking any attack.  Not really in the spirit of the opening, but Black doesnt have any immediate attack either.
This move could have waited, however, I wanted to get the extra center pawn before White played c3, when the symmetrical pawn structure would have made things less dynamic.
Anticipating an opening of the e-file.
17...a6 is also a possiblity, however, I believe this move is stronger as it prepares to double on either file and 18. b5 Na5 gives Black control of the c-file.
White is probably slightly better if the situation isnt just equal.  Black has good play on the d-file, the pawn structure is symmetrical and there is an opposite colored bishop situation.  White has succeded in liquidating his isolated pawn and his only weakness is on a3, which Black can't exploit.  On the other hand, Black has a weakness on b7 and on g6, which is easier for White to exploit as he has the light-squared bishop.
Faced with a defensive task, the move that gives your pieces the most activity is most often the best move.  Here the rook can attack from behind, in addition to keeping White pieces tied down as well.
The Reti Opening. My first thoughts were 'Well, it looks like I'll be learning how to play against this opening'. I have only played this opening once, a long time ago.
I capture. Is the Reti a kind of temporary gambit?
Why is e4 rarely played at this point? It develops a central pawn and lets the LSB attack the pawn on c4.
White is still ahead in development, but the pawns on d2 and b2 are going to hinder the development of his DSB slightly.
I don't really know why this was played. I guess to prevent Bb4, but I wouldn't threaten his knight with my bishop while it's defended.
White didn't really have much choice: he loses the inight anyway.
?! Not because its a dubious move in itself but because this is just about the sharpest opening in the whole Sicilian Labyrinth (Polugaevsky's term), so it was hardly wise of me to try it against The Big Bad Wolf!  This is the Polugaevsky Variation of the Najdorf Variation of the Sicilian Defence.  A more sober response would have been 7....Be7
The N is pinned against the Q and doomed, so Black has to counter-attack on the Q-side.
Black has little choice but to take the B
I can't remember what the motivation for this was but it seems inconsistent with 13...Ra5 and a worse way of developing this N than ...Nc6
This is from a themed tourni, and I stopped playing E4 because of the Sicilian
It is all equal, but Black is slightly behind in terms of development and the bishop is boxed in
White completes development
5.Qc2 This type of game for white is always exciting. White play in to queen so early. But still nothing is advantage for white.
Allright. This is the most crusal game and may be the break point for all game. Nb3 is seem nice for black but it is not. This kind of attacks in chess always be dangerous. You thought that this is danger for white for its castle. But taking valuable pieces is not always win the games. İmportant thing is also playing strong positional playing. This kind of effort always one way battle. <n><n>---- Black give up position strenght for this movement with taking 15. Nxa1 .-----
this is sacriface with no purpose.
One of the good moves of this game. İf you look carefully. Black is has to take knight. There is no way to black take white queen here. ıf black takes to queen game is checkmate for white. (/Re8 is checkmate)
This is enough for resignation. White wins.
!? (interesting move - may not be the best)<n><n>Trading bishop and knight for white's rook and pawn.  Materially, it's an even trade, but since black is trading away his developed pieces, I feel the trade is better for white (assuming white takes advantage of the situation).  If black can get his other minor pieces developed and take control of the open e file with his rooks, he may get a winning attack considering white's exposed king.
? (Bad move)<n><n>I was expecting the pawn trade, but overlooked Nxd3 .  I tend to play too quickly, especially when tired.  :)
Thought it might be a useful exercise to annotate this in the interest of studying my game. Your comments are welcome if you think it will improve my play, and, by demonstrating the faults I've made, improve that of others.
I think that at this point the opponent has left 'book'.
Now we have a fairly simple game to play. Pieces are equal and bishops are both light-squared. <n><n>Computer gives me +0.19 advantage which is probably due to advanced pawn and one move advantage.
The intention here was to shift pressure from the left to the right side. I thought my pawn position was superior from that perspective so thought I'd try and capitalise.<n><n>Stockfish sees this as a mistake, it removed my advantage bringing the game back to zero. In hindsight I can see that black now has free run at putting my pieces on the defense.
Black encourages an exchange of rooks.  <n><n>I didn't see this as being so bad but the computer thought it weak for black.  Black should have moved Rad8, which would have exchanged knights anyway. Perhaps the difference here is that I will subsequently take the c pawn with my rook.
Not sure why black did this. I was expecting him to attack the f5 pawn with Bd3.
This was a dubious move, not sure what I was thinking.<n><n>Computer doesn't mind it much.
This was the most logical move, computer agrees.
With promotion threats on both sides of the board blacks position is basically lost now.
Standard Sicilian defense from black. This is apparently one of the most common and statistically successful defenses against e4. The strategy black has with 1..c5 is to inhibit white's ability to maintain a central pawn majority. You can see if white moves 2. d4, he will be at a 2-1 central pawn disadvantage after a quick exchange in the first two moves of the game. In addition, this exchange results in the queen coming out, where she will undoubtedly be harassed while black develops.
This is the MT starting position.<n><n>Typically, white would accept the temporary disadvantage at d4 by playing 2. Nf3 (headed to the "open Sicilian"). In my view, this is a really sexy move, one of my favorite opening chess moves. Nf3 allows white to develop the knight, provides white control of the remaining center squares (pressured only at d4), allows for a potential d4 (or e5) push in the future and is one step closer to castling. In addition, notice the scope of the white LSB and queen, compared to black's. This scope difference creates delays in black development. Quite a return on investment for one move!<n><n>However, if white follows 2. Nf3 d6 with 3. d4, this will again result in the exchange of a flank pawn for a central pawn, albeit with development advantages.<n><n>So, by countering with 2. c3 ("Alapin Sicilian" or "c3 Sicilian") instead, white provides the future d4 pawn a "buddy" to back him up. Let's call him Buddy. I'm sure the d4 pawn feels all warm inside. Buddy allows white to maintain the central pawn status quo. However, with all good things there are drawbacks. The primary white weakness is the limited mobility of the queen side knight, which makes the e4 pawn more vulnerable to immediate attack.<n><n>I may be missing some key elements in description, but this is what I notice.
Here black is putting additional pressure on d4, which is most certainly the early battle ground.
But white is undeterred and occupies d4. Two attackers, two defenders, the attacker loses.
Black takes.
So, black challenges the e4 pawn. I think Nf6 might have been better here to capitalize on the fact white cannot readily defend with the queen side knight AND develop a minor piece. D5 is a similar tactic but moves a pawn instead of developing a minor piece, but opens a line up for the black LSB. Not really sure which is better.
5. e5 seemed to me to allow white to expand deeper, but I noticed it also gave the black c6 knight two separate targets meaning I would have to defend d4 rigorously and I'm just not sure up for that in this game.<n><n>In addition, the only way black can exchange is with the queen. I think I may be able to capitalize on this later.
White continues development with the knight and adds a d4 defender. This isolated pawn normally is troublesome, but not in this game. Buddy is my hero. Also, check out the open lines on the white side! <n><n>Note: analysis shows we are back in book again, but white has successfully avoided the c3 attack taking advantage of the white queen side knight weakness. White is in rapid development which is a key to defeating the Sicilian defense. If white can maintain rapid development, the black queen side pieces will be quickly marginalized.
Black uses this opportunity to develop the DSB. I think the the Queen check actually unintentionally assisted in white's development.
Black Queen side steps the attack, but presents no real threat in return. Looking back, I now believe 4...Nf6 was better than 4...d5.<n><n>At this point, it's more obvious how the white queen side pieces are limited. Rapid white development is a main strategy for defeating the Siciilain defense.
Its always the quiet ones! I'm pretty sure the game is over.
Black runs
Black runs
Queen centered, black resigned. Thanks for the game lanceman_uk!<n><n>Please leave me your comments.
This move is the last book move for A00: the Saragossa Opening. The knight takes control of e4 to prevent the immediate move [e2-e4], thus controlling e4 and also d5.
This move looks suspect and does not follow the theory of piece development. I begin to sense my opponent is playing with the idea of a hedgehog and it seems like there will be an over development of pawns before pieces, which I will try to take advantage of by correct piece play.
My opponent develops into a hedgehog looking position. The text move adds more control to d4, but leaves the white squares e4 and d5 uncontested. Going by the adage of piece development, this move does not contribute to development for white. This gives black the chance for rapid piece development and the initiative.
Continuing with piece development and controlling the center Reti style.
A fourth pawn move is just bad for white. The text move does not contribute to development and does not offer any kind of attack or tactic. The move is questionable.
And now black has created a hedgehog formation. This move opens lines for queen and f8 bishop. Even though black has not castled, very good attacking possibilities exist, while white has limited counter play.
The text is a move likely made with the idea of freeing the bishop. White has a porous pawn structure which allows black a lot of freedom for bishops and queen.
Maintaining proximity while preventing the queens trade.
is it ok for a double pawn here
lost pawn
good game so far
I lost
The chosen moment for opening the game.
d4 instead closed the game, but probably in my favour.
The key move. One of the pieces between my R and his Q is gone. Nc3 is pinned.
...but gives me this! How to exploit it properly?
!? One of Simagin's "pet" lines. Time to throw the book out of the window.
Simple development. A more positional approach was 3. c4 (hitting d5 while expanding on the queenside).
!! You must understand that chess was king (pardon the pun) in the former Soviet Union. This game was played before a big crowd of people. When Tal played 12. Nxf7, the place erupted. It got so loud in the hall that the arbiter threatened to kick out all of the spectators! Can you imagine being held "in contempt of court" at a chess match?
Simagin takes the material advantage. Little did he know that his king was about to get very, very tired.
! Checking AND forking two pieces.
Now black tries to get back in the game.
Black now starts his first real offense of the game.
And black resigned as he can't stop the a pawn from promoting. When it comes to sacrifices, no one could match Tal! Both rook sacrifices in this game were genius (especially the first one on move 15). Because of inspiring play like this, Tal went on to win the World Championship from Botvinnik four years later (he turned right around and lost it to Botvinnik a year after that). While his reign at the top may have been short, Tal continued to be considered an upper echelon GM some 30 years after he lost the title. And I wasn't kidding around with drinking jokes - Tal was a chain smoking booze lover (who allegedly got hooked on morphine as well). The toll that his vices took on his body was severe. I guess that his addictions were the great equalizer with the rest of us. He was only a man - but his chess was truly magic. I hope you have enjoyed:) - Thomas
!  Despite black's superior attackers white has regained the advantage.  This line threatens 28.Rxb6+ dropping the Black queen if Black responds 27... axb6.  I originally misread Ion's lines.  They reference 26... Qc7, but Ion, on your line 26... Qc7 27.Bxb6 axb6, I still think that 28.Rxb6+ continues to be the strongest continuation.  Black will ultimately drop the queen, it is just a matter of how.  "29... Kc7"? 30.Rc6! pinning the queen to the king.  "29... Qxb6"?  White has two alternatives, axb6 and Qxb6.
I proceed cautiously by making the position more closed.  I have real advantages such as strong pawn formations, an advanced passed pawn, and a half-passed pawn, but his attackers are superior to my own.
I partly expected Rdb1 pinning the bishop in an attempt to win the a pawn, but this move does have its own logic.
an iregular opening. in my opinion it cant be good for black...
black is developing his tools very slowly. white has a great space to play in the center as well as in the king and queen side.
it seems that black is waiting for white to make his move. white, on the other hand, is gaining advantage in the center.
what a great move!!!<n>it took me some time to see it all the way through. black is simply lost.
another great move!!!<n>without a rook and a knight, white is won and black is lost.
(WH) Probably premature. In such positions it is usually best to maintain the tension until White is ready to exploit the opening of the QN file.
(WH) It no longer seemed necessary to play ... N-N1 so I decided to move all my pieces nearer his King to see what would happen.
(WH) Naturally! Now Black has the better minor pieces and a promising attacking position.
let's some agressive game, this is the most good chance we have in blitz playing aginst good players, there not too much time to analyze...
but no ! surprise ! this treath on d colon is god, but it's a blunder however because of Bc8 g4!
then my great challenger resign and disconnect ... the game was not lost anyway
A general Sicilian defense
The Kalashnikov variation
It is thematic for White to play b5 with the threat of b4 and so it is necessary to protect the e4 pawn with this Bishop move
Black exchanges off the remaining minor pieces.  Black's main weakness is the backward d6 pawn.  He also has 3 pawn islands to White's two but with all major pieces still on the board a draw is likely
And so the game enters to new phase with a material inbalance of two Rook's v.'s a Queen.  White is also a pawn down
White is now two pawns down.  This position may be theoretically lost for White although as the game played out a draw did look the most likely outcome.
The remainder of the game is Black playing for on only to blunder and lose his Queen for a Rook
This might seem greedy, but its main motivation was supporting the N on g5 and the second benefit is enabling development of d-pawn and dsb.  Meanwhile the N on g5 still has plenty of options.
This seems sensible, chasing the N away, and probably following up with other pawn pushes that also disturb White's army of minor pieces.
Another alternative is Nf3, but e3 appears okay, it safeguards d4, and provides clearance for the f1 bishop, while protecting c4.
Black continues with a correct move typical of this opening.
White takes immediate advantage of the weakness to gain two points.
Pins the h7 knight. Both players have a lack of coordination of pieces. Black has 2 hanging pieces.
Leaves an open line for black.
The best choice. Not (25...Nxf5?  26.Qxf5) with 2 pieces for the rook.
There is some danger of a pawn promotion for white due to the connected passed pawns, but black has a chance to promote first.
White forfeits on time, but the pawn promotion can not be stopped and black would get a queen and win. White does not have time to eliminate the knight and promote pawns. A nice game with interesting play.
From here Black's moves are pretty much forced, it's Material Advantage Vs. Position and it keeps getting worse.
Here ends this funny and interesting "failure" of the Max Lange Attack!
Bird Opening System
Safe opening for black
Continues black development
Transposes to Dunst Opening
Attacks pawn at d4 with two pieces
The Sicilian defense.  Only one line is opened (for the queen) and black may fall behind in development.  The main idea is to trade a wing pawn (black's c-pawn) for a center pawn (white's d-pawn).  The reasoning is that the extra center pawn will allow black to eventually control the center.
The fianchetto (wing development) of the bishop caught many classic players off guard.  At first glance it doesn't seem to have any centralizing effect.  However, the bishop is going to move to g7, where it will strike at the center squares on d4 and e5.  It is fairly difficult to challenge this bishop, and the fianchetto has proven a tough nut to crack.  This variation of the Sicilian is called the Accelerated Dragon.
Black has achieved his initial goal of captuing white's d-pawn with the c-pawn.
At first glance White seems to have an advantage both in development and space.  Generally, such an advantage would prompt you to initiate an attack.  It is too early to do so now, and the challenge wll be to preserve this advantage while completing the rest of white's development.
Establishing the Maroczy bind, named after the great Hungarian master of old.  White is trying to prevent black from ever playing d7-d5.  White will maintain an advantage in space, but the extra pawn move allows black to start catching up in development.
White has maintained his advantage in space, but is now lagging a bit in development.  Black must try to take advantage of this soon or risk drifting into passivity.
Black is very happy to get the queens off of the board.
White may have underestimated the small combination at black's disposal in this position.
Black has just about equalized now.  Most of the endgames are fairly balanced.
The knight ending is also lost, but the king and pawn ending is easier for black to play.
This is all I considered at the time, but 41. g5 is winning for white!  If 41. ...Kxa4 42. Kc3!  Black has no moves!  42. ...Ka3 43. c5 creates the passed pawn and the win.  Unreal!
White will be helpless to stop black's passed pawns.  What a shaky game for both of us!  The ending was very tactical, and we were both on autopilot.  Endings are the most neglected aspect of chess.  Time spent studying endings pays dividends in the opening and middlegame as well.
This move will probably transpose the opening into an open game.
I felt this pawn move brought white's front line too far forward and I would gain tempo from attacks behind the pawns.
Opening a lane for my queen.
Time for another attack. This move will win me the pawn at c2.
Once you are up in pieces, eliminate the opposing pawns. They are the only pieces that can win the game for white at this point, if one can manage to clear the end of the board.
This trade was not in white's best interests. It may save a pawn but two rooks bearing down on the king all alone is not a good situation.
The game is basically over at this point. A rook and two pawns down is 0-1.
The 'Anti-Sicilian', avoiding the open lines, has proven difficult for me to handle with black pieces in many games.
Relieved of the burden of having to solve the problem of premature Q development which 4 ed would have caused, the black LSB is able to achieve a thematic e5-chain strategy: activating/exchanging off the 'bad' hemmed in LSB.
More Q-side dark square pressure, almost forcing simplification into a superior endgame for black, with his extra N.
The task is much easier for the black pieces now.
The concepts of 1) opposition and 2) controlling the passed pawn's 'critical' squares with the K are the ideas which guide black to victory in the final sequence
This in annotation of a game played against a team mate for coaching only.  I have never coached, never been coached and never annotated a game.  So any comments are welcome!
good choice, keeping controle of d4 and f2.
Opening for the white squared bishop
Good move, asking to exchange pieces or when not getting rid of that annoying pin
A piece behind and opening kings position totally.  Game is in fact already lost for black, but he decided to play further.  No problem for me.
This is a strange move
This move is absolutely wasted.  I do not see any point in it whatsoever.
Passed pawn, so push it!!!
Better is d5.  This move leaves the pawn vulnerable.
Zugzwang.  A situation when one would rather pass than move.  See white above.  Black can mark time with the bishop.
perfect opening for the knight
Unusual waiting move, hoping for ...d4. ...d3 transposes to main line sicilian.
This wins at least a pawn
Kp opening, nothing unusual here.....
protecting it for a short time....
Realizing his rook was in peril my opponent thought it better to lose a piece rather than the exchange, I'm not sure this was the best move...
But I'm not gonna let him off any hook outta compassion...
Hammering the final nail in the coffin.....
Great! White now has an isolani pawn which gives me a focal point of attack. Let's see how long he can hold his ground here.
Pins and needles everywhere! It is wise the King(s) seek shelter before the pending melee.
I am currently teaching myself the "Stone Wall Attack" and all of the variations. This is just one of the many games I am using to practice this opening. My opponent doesn't follow what I felt he would do and you'll see that I abandon the Stone Wall pretty early.<n><n>However I lose some momentum and material early and feel that I should have lost this game do to some poor decisions on my part. My opponent doesn't take advantage of his two Bishops vs. my two Knight late and makes what a feel was a fatal error with a trade. <n><n>My opponent also either lost focus or completely undervalued pawns later and allowed me to crawl back into this game and ultimately win.<n><n>I give myself credit for hanging in and getting the Win but some bad decisions should have sunk me pretty early on.<n><n>Here we go.<n><n>D4 - Typical opening for The Stone Wall. I'm expecting Nc6 or d5.
g6- Uh oh, I Know I've seen this somewhere before... I'm perplexed as this doesn't open up the middle for black and w/ my pawns on Black if he fienchetto's his biship or even brings it to the H file he is blocked. I am bummed however as the pawn on G6 will effect my intended attack w/ the Stone Wall.<n><n>This should have been my first clue to drop the stone wall and adjust my opening.
Bg5 - Not sure what I was thinking here. I'm losing momentum and don't even realize it. Throwing away moves that should be used to develop pieces such as my two knights. This "threat" does nothing to deter Black.
e5- In my mind, probably the worst move so far this game. Again, I have neglected to develop pieces. Should have Castled here or Nbd2. Both moves would have gave needed support to the middle and possibly hid my King. I could be wrong but I feel that this was the down turn in the game for me.
Be4 - Again... I see this as a poor decision. I attack Ra8, but neglect to defend e5, while exposing my queen. I'm starting to see patience as a issue in my game.
0-0 - Black totally negated my Knight Pin to his king. Black is tidy and well defended. However he is sorely behind in development.
There it is. Black is now, not afraid of the Queen trade once his King is tucked safely away.
Now comes the fun part. My two Knights vs. Blacks two Bishops. While we are equal numerically, black has the advantage if his plays i correct, as his bishops can control almost any square w/ this open board. Black should win imo.
Ne5- putting the knight in the middle of the board, hoping for a mistake from my opponent (who clearly isn't all that comfortable playing against knights in the end game) I'm also applying some pressure on g6 pawn.
Bd6- At first glance this is a very powerful move as it pins my two pieces together. The flaw is that if Black takes, he will be trading a Bishop for a Knight. In this type of game he can't afford to trade either of his bishops as I can just move all of my other pieces onto the opposite color. I will happily take that trade if offered.
Black seems lost and unsure of what to do. Bd7 would have stalemated my Night from advancing up the board.
Kd5- Black sets his eyes on evening the score.
Now Black is feeling the pressure. If the Bishop leaves his post to track down the wayward pawn, Black losses his last two remaining pieces.
Black finally relizes his doom and gives up the ghost!<n><n>Like I said earlier, I should have lost this game and probably would have had Blacked valued his pawns and bishops a little more. Good Game Black.
Buying time.
? This move turned out well, but with good play for White it is a disadvantage for Black.
? A mistake in reply, 18. Nc4+! gives White the advantage. 18...Ka6 19. Ne5! forces Black to give up the Queen with 19...Qxe6 20. Bxe6 Nxe6. Material is even but White has an development advantage and Black has an exposed king
? This is the reason the sac works. <n>but better is<n>21. Nxc2 exd3 (for some reason the comp does not want to take the pawn even though I think it is best.) 22.Bf1 b6 23. Nb4+ Kb7 24.Nxd3 is a pawn up for White.<n><n>but all hope is not lost for Black. His king is safe and White's pieces are all of the sudden all behind the 4th rank.<n><n>24...e6 is the best way to stay in. Now Black has possible threats like ...Qe4 and Bb4+<n>In a way the roles are reversed.
pretty simple really just get rid of the attacker
blunders the knight for nothing,Black should win this game
? unthinkable! Black gives the rook back. My play was not very convincing in this game. At this point I thought I lost the win
alas,I thought this forked but White has
2...d6. Standard book, I believe. Is this a Closed Sicilian?
I try to open. This is actually a gambit, as you will soon see. I will sacrifice this pawn for a development and doubled d-pawns.
Black is fully developed, almost, and White still has a minor and his Queen on the back rank.
14.Qb3! While it may not be always wise to trade when down, this move removes a defender from the middle. Black's busy Queen is more useful than White's back rank squatter.
19....a5?? This is pathetic! What does it accomplish?
If not for 20.Nf1, the White Queen would be lost, for Rd1 would be mate.
White resigned.
The Caro-kann proper. From here white has several good chooses listed in order of popularity. 1# 3. Nc3(main line) 2# 3.e5(main line advanced varation) 3# 3. exd5( main line exchange varation)
good move but unfortunitely d4 is well defended against any attack.
A little tactical trick here can you see it?
The opening is over, yet the middle game has begun!
Generally speaking it´s good to exchange pieces when you are over in material!
Changing queens make it easier for me to win!
It´s hopeless for black now!
Usual Sicilian Opening
So B32, Flohr Variation it is.
Interestingly the GameKnot db states: bxc6 good, dxc6 bad... so it seems like the right choice (always towards the center, although this leaves a an isolated pawn...) This is where the opening DB ends...
In this situation White's pieces aim all towards the kings side but have no real means of causing any harm. Meanwhile black can start to apply pressure on the queens side with two half-open files
Now black has build up quite some pressure on the Queen's side while it's King's side is simply protected by the pawnstructure and the minor pieces. Right now I don't see a lot white could do to attack
And this is what happend
Another lost minor piece and the Queen trapped
With the queen gone, White resigned
this is a very unusual move, per the chessgames.com database 20,699 upper-ranked players played Nc3 here, whereas only 45 played a3 (with a 28.9 % white score and a 49.9 black win score). It now turns into a Queen Pawn game (E00) or a Queen's Indian (E12).
now black has a skewer on the rook and queen.....
my first attempt at this: excuse my humor but some time's it's real thinking
i think this is ruy lopez in reverse
4.Nf3 is also playable, but gives black a chance to play the sharp Blumenfeld Gambit, 4...b5!?  I prefer the white side of the Benoni to the white side of the Blumenfeld.
Keeping the black LSB away from g4. In the modern Benoni, black usually has trouble developing his LSB due to white's grip on the central light squares. One common plan for black is to exchange it early for white's N after white plays Nf3, via ...Bg4->Bxf3. With the text move, this option is no longer available, and there's hope of black's LSB getting in the way of coordinating his other pieces.
A thematic move for black, attempting to expand on the Q-side.
I also considered 14.Be2, but decided to eliminate black's most active piece. With this N gone, black's pieces look uncoordinated, while White's are well placed to commence operations in the center, taking advantage of the central pawn majority.  If the black N is allowed to remain on e5, black will play for an eventual ...c4 and ...Nd3, possibly redeploying the other N to c5 along the way, which is a typical plan for black in this opening.
?! 21... Qxe5 22.Bxc5 Qg3+ 23.Qg2 Qxg2 24.Kxg2 Rfc8 25.b4 is probably black's best try, though I prefer white's position.
I also considered 23.Ne4, which wins after 23... Nxe5? 24.Nf6+ Bxf6 25.Bxf6, but after 23... Qxe5!? 24.Nf6+ Bxf6 25.Rxe5 Bxe5 black is still in the game.
This move is necessary so, in case of Af5, g4. Of course, the side-effect is to provide a square for the bsb in case of an early Nh5.
Doesn't it look good?
I didn't see here the threat Qf4... now, I tried a lot of ways to preserve my attack, but they doesn't work. Qg8+, Ke7, h7 would be a good try, but Qf4+ and then QxRh2 destroys me.
without the queen, my game is technically lost. The pawn itself is not enough to give me compensation.
The advance of the d pawn doesn't lead me to recover the pawn. Again, I have to lose one tempo defending c3, and this gives him the time to go Rh8, and my pawn is lost. I calculated if in this case the d pawn could have brought me something, but it was not so... so I resigned.
As played by Short vs Kasparov.  I have long favoured this variation but it is very difficult to get it right.  I also play the other standard moves 6. Bg5 and 6.Be3.
Interesting .... Normal is 6...e6.  Hendrik explained that this has the advantage of preventing White from answering 6...e6 with 7.a4, which is not a move I've contemplated before.  As played, we trasnpose to the normal line anyway.
White attacks the centre without delay.  I find I'm slightly more successful with this than with immediate castling.  The difficulty with this opening is getting the move order right to gain the initiative without leaving oneself open to devastating counters.  This move, for example, leaves the a7-g1 diagonal very weak.
The pawn evades the attack and, in turn, attacks Black's N.  The main alternative would have been 11. Qf3 but this ties the Q to the e-pawn's defence and pins the pawn against the Q, reducing its scope for involvement in attack.
So Black takes the opportunity to exploit the vacated diagonal.
As the attack on e5 is getting nowhere, Black changes focus, threatening to swap for White's long-term asset, the WSB, and also opening up the d-file for his rook.
I was rather proud of this move, exploiting the half-open f-file and attacking the Nc5.  If Black takes the e-pawn with his N, White retakes and has a dangerous attack on f7, so, if Black recaptures on f5, White penetrates deep into Black's position on f7, with plentiful attacking options..
Black neatly sidesteps the threat.<n>Alternative variation: 23... Nxc2 24. Bh6 g6 25. Bxf8 Ne3 ( 25... Bxf8 26. Rd3 ) 26. Bxe7 Nxf1 27. Qh4
More principal than straightaway c4. Never spoil a good threat... This game is about using tempo, via pressure...
The Flohr variation, widely recognized as to most solid approach for white... Spasski - Fischer 1972, game 13, continued with 4. ... g6?! 5. Bc4? (correct is Ng5!) Nb6 6. Bb3 Bg7, and white has nothing... Fischer won, unjustly... In game 19, Fischer continued with 4. ... Bg4 5. Be2 c6? (correct is e6) 6. Ng5? (too early, correct is c4) Bxe2 6. Qxe2, dxe5, 7. dxe5 (this is supposed to be Nxe5) e6 8. 0-0 Nd7 and drawed... White must learn from this...
It is too early for black, to whip up an attack against c2, via Nc6/Bf5 and Nb4...<n><n>This is the whole idea, behind blacks approach in Alekhine...<n><n>After Nc6, Bb5. After straightaway Bf5, Bd3, or Bb5+, c6, Bd3...<n><n>Nb4 can still be met with a3, after Nc6/Bf5...<n><n>White opens possibilities for Ng5, so it has to be pinned...
This is the move...
Black collapses under the pressure of h4-h5...<n><n>Correct was 20. ... Qe7, followed by Qc7, and Nd7, to try and capture whites Queen...<n><n>Probably the cost is too high after 20. ... Qe7 21. a4 Qc7 22. a5! Bxa5 (Bc5, a6, rendering b7 for the Queen) 23. Nc4! Nd7 24. Qxf8+ Nxf8 25. Rxa5...
No good is 23. ... Ne7 24. hxg7 Re8 25. Ng5 Bg6 26. Be3 Qc2 27. Re1 Qd2 28. Rf2! Qd7 29. Qxd7 Nxd7 30. Rc1...<n><n>Best is probably 23. ... Nc7 24. Be3 Qe7 25. hxg7 Re8...  This is an awkward moment to swap Queens... White has no choice, however: 24. Ba6? Qxb7 25. Bxb7 Bxf3, and white loses...
Black resigned from this training game. Here is, what could have followed...<n><n>CherryPie, Thanks for this thrilling exposure... I could not have done it without you...<n><n>Regards, Bonnie...
7...Nxf4 8.d4, with plenty of activity for the pawn.
The first step to make a successful attack is to 1.Gain Piece Activity, more than your opponent. If your opponent has the better activity, he will easily counter your weaker forces and repulse your attack. But your more active pieces will overwhelm the defense easily if they are more active than them. Gaining activity is simple: Develop your pieces on the squares where they are most advanced and can also go to other forward squares. Also, do not capture the opponent's pieces unless you can get a tactical advantage, since that will increase your opponent's activity while decreasing yours. By the way, notice I am not talking about doubled pawns, open files, and space etc. The chess books offer these ideas to think about a position, but it is too much. All these ideas are smaller aspects of activity. Doubled pawns, if really weak, will always reduce the activity of your pieces or allow the opponent's pieces to become active by attacking the weakness. Open files, if occupied naturally give you activity. Just thinking about activity in general is much more useful for most class players to avoid getting too confused.
Seems so natural and strong, preparing ...Bf8. However, here is another rule: When you have activity advantage, you must be on the lookout every turn for combinations and tactical shots. Activity creates these tactics. ...f6 was stronger, even though it weakens the kingside.
The best move in the position, although it takes Shredder only a few seconds to see it. Taking with either the h or f pawn causes black to lose horribly. The second stage is 2.Turn your activity into an attack by gathering your pieces to the area and make threats. Moves Bd3 and Qd2 served that purpose. 3.The decisive combination is when you break the opponent's position and undergo a tactical operation, right now.
Very easy to find this move!
Black is now losing decisive material in all lines, so he gave up. As a summary on the attack, we need 3 steps usually. <n>1.Gain Superior Activity-Put your pieces forward as much as you can, and restrict the opponent's activity.<n>2.Convert-Use your superior activity to create threats. The concentration of pieces on an area is the best way to do this.<n>3.Decisive Blow-Once you have a concentration of pieces and create all sorts of threats, sooner or later you are bound to have a decisive combination to blast the opponent to pieces. You should always be on the lookout for tactics, but think about possible combinations on every turn once step 1 is achieved. Sometimes it is not always so easy to just follow the 3 steps- there are more, and this is the general way to do it. Your opponent will also try to gain activity and attack you. At some point, you will have contact, and the more active side will prevail. That is why activity is the #1 thing in chess.
Hi everyone!<n><n>Pawns are the soul of chess!  They are certainly not to be taken lightly.  They are potential queens.  If you are able to keep a one pawn advantage all the way through it can therefore be decisive.  It certainly was in this game!  For the want of three rating points I would have clocked up only my third near-Expert Victory.  All the same, it was a big win because William absolutely Blitzed me (pun intended!) in my first game as white against him.  In the second, I got away with a Houdini-Style draw.  In this game, however, the position looked even until I somehow managed to win a pawn in the middlegame.  God only knows how I managed to hold on to this precious one point advantage but I did.  Pieces were exchanged and I ended up in a Q & P ending with an outside passer.  Even in such an advantageous position, Glenda just could not stop defending, right to the end.  However, she was nursing my a pawn through to becoming Glenda2.  William could not stop this promotion and resigned on the grounds of Ruinous Loss of Material.  So, how did this all happen?  Well, let us start with the Reti Opening, which is 1. Nf3.
9. exd4 - pawn trade.
28. Qd8+ - it looks as though William is gonna get his pawn back.  However, I have something up my sleeve!
38. Qd1 - William declines a queen trade.  However, I do not know how William is gonna stop a two against one here!
Building up preassure. Not sure if it is the best move for black.
When ahead in material you always prefer to trad off as long as it does not lead to an extrem lack of development... So I thought on seizing the only open file.
Grabbing the pawn and exchanging. The game is finished and there is nothing left I have to fear. However my opponent wanted me to enjoy the hunt to the last moment and to collect my trophy. :)
The following game is a variation of the Ruy Lopez that I enjoyed because it demonstrates how delaying the castle allows white to gain piecemeal advantage. This game would not be at masters level.. my rate fluctuates from 1480 to 1540. So this is game played at the mid 1550 level.
This move is a mistake. Black expects one of two things; either O-O-O or Bxc6+. However this move is not prepared to meet d4 w/o losing a pawn
White is up a point, but is winning the opening decisively. Black's knight cannot move out anywhere safely, the bishop on f8 is trapped as well. It will be very hard from here on out for black to castle. Black makes the best choice possible on this situation to try and regain momentum.
the exchange is on.
I would have delayed the castling to meet Nc5. Although I cannot see a move here that prevents Nc5. Also look how long it takes black to castle! The stage of black's development lags considerably behind white's.
I moved my Queen a lot in this game.  Some of the moves were more "showy" than tactical.
This was to offer a pawn and rook for theyank's rook an good positioning for my Queen.  He didn't go for it.
With the e file open and the knight in a good outpost, the game takes an interesting turn.
This is the 1st time I put theyank into check.
I was hoping for this move!
The Petroff was viewed as passive and almost lost for Black. The only grandmaster of the time that had faith in it was Chigorin.
It starts like a Scotch, but it ends up a Steinitz defense.
White completes development and instead of using his Queen to defend e4, uses the Rook.
White has over-defended e4 and now is threatening to capture on e5. The pawn structure that results from this is favorable to White because he has extra space and better control of the center. Black's source of counterplay is attacking the e-pawn. But his cramped position doesn't promise much and in modern times this defense has all but subsided from practice.
Black seizes the opportunity to exchange two minor pieces in hope that his cramped position will be less felt and his coordination won't suffer from lack of maneuvering space.
Which he does. A very simple yet brilliant move. With a quiet Queen shuffle, White has freed d4 for his Knight, he's putting pressure on c7 so as to provoke c6 and a weakening of the d-pawn, his Queen has the whole third rank at her disposal.
Not forced but Black isn't the strongest of players. If Capablanca were Black here, I'm sure he would have seen the central strike 11...d5!. But now we are in for a treat since we are about to see one of the most beautiful examples of piece coordination ever played on a chessboard.
Black carries on with his plan of rearranging his pieces.
Black could have played more actively here with 15...Qb6 but his mindset seems to be on pure defense.
In this game I determined to play an open game
Ruy Lopez opening
honestly, I don't know why this move but I think that for b4
this is the badness in Black's position for the move 17......Rd8
and this is not good the best is 20.Rxf6 gxf6 21.Bxf6+ Ke8 22.............
I want to make a note for nobita2c if he ever reads this; especially after my game with muginz I was planning to offer a draw once this had played itself out.  It worked to a really interesting position so I'm sorry we couldn't finish it.
Black's slow development leaves him open to pawn pressure which will be the theme of the game.  The black bishop especially exerts no power in the game until far too late.
White's aggressive pawn play feels unadvised, as his King-side pawns are a shambles and his bishops remain undeveloped.  Probable continuation is 21. Bxh3 Nb6 or Nxe5 and then who knows?  A real shame the game wasn't finished.
This is another game I've played in the botvinnik, and fortunately for me another win.
9... Nd5!?  While 9... hxg5 is the most common move in this position, this move is reasonable if black is willing to sacrifice.  Black tries to get rid of the pin by getting the knight out of there when he has the chance, however this puts the queen in the line of fire.
I, white, take up the challenge, 10.Nf3 defending the bishop is probably fine for white, black is active and has pressure after 10... Qa5 but is covered with weaknesses.  This move makes the black king look a lot weaker as he's lost his f and g pawns.  Oh yeah, and I also pick up the exchange.
Black ignores the threats for the sake of finishing development and creating pressure.
this seems risky... and it seemed risky when I was playing it.  He has an open g file against my king, and active queen and bishop on b7 ready to open up on my king.  However if my king stays in the middle his bishop on b4 will retain a very powerful pin that ties down two of my pieces, my knight and rook.
I hit his queen and try to cut down pressure on the g file.  However this also weakens my light squares to tactics (though I don't think they work-they're still dangerous), if anyone has another suggestion I'd love to hear it.
This defends Qf7 but 23... Naxc3 is more difficult to face 24.Qf7 Qxf7 25.Nxf7 Ne2  26.Kh1 Nxc1 27.Rxc1 where black has an exchange for a pawn and if it's winnable it's tough.  Luckily my opponent went for this line.
Black almost has a pretty mate- if he didn't have a pawn on e6 then 28... Rxh2 !! 30.Kxh2 Qh7  31.Bh3 Qxh3# would've made me the loser of this exciting game, as it is he resigned, there's no good defense to my theats.  This was a fun game for me, he tossed out a move I don't know the theory to in a highly complicated opening, and I didn't get slaughtered!  If anyone has any comments or ideas, PM me.
The rook exchange benefits black, who is ahead in development.
discovered defense saves White's ass
White's king is getting cornered on the opposite side of the board.
White has 5 out of 6 pieces on the b-file and is in zugzwang.
And here it is...
Moving my rook in order to avoid a rather embarassing back-rank mate!  Looking at the position here, although white is a whole rook down, I have a monster attack and black's pieces are so badly co-ordinated.  Just look how out of the action black's queen is...
Alternative variation: 22. Qc4 Rac8 23. Qb3 Qd6 $17
Team Match, I'm playing black, and my oponent gives me the Bird. Bird's Opening, that is. Black reponds with 1. ... Nf6, the Positional Variation.
White left it hanging, so black gains a pawn.
Undoubling the f-pawns. At this point, black is ahead by a pawn, but white has a half-open file aimed right at black's king which might be adequate compensation for the lost pawn.
26. Rxf7! I think deserves a ! for the danger it presents to black.
The only move that might save the game for black. 28. ... Kd8 29. Rg8+ Kc7 30. Rxa8 Rxb2 31. Bxa5+ Kb7 32. Rg8 and white is up by a pawn heading into the endgame with two passed pawns. As played, black is now attacking white's queen and the bishop prevents a back-rank check. But black is far from out of the woods.
And now white has no checks. His rook on g6 is en prise, as is his pawn on b2.
Time to counterattack. White has no choice but to trade queens now. Any king move allows black to checkmate: 35. Ke1??? Qxd2+ 36. Kf1 Rb1#.
If white's rook on f6 didn't protect his queen, then 35. ... Rxd2 would win the queen. In the game, I almost played this automatically (overlooking the white rook). Close call. As it is, black is satisfied with the queen trade, ending up in a queenless endgame ahead by a rook and pawn.
Black needs an approach for his king, and going around would take too long. At this point my opponent didn't return to the game for a couple days, and I got caught up in my other games so I entered a dozen or so likely continuations as conditional moves. A few days later, while I was asleep, this game finished itself.
Final position. White to move, black to mate in four: 48. Kb3 Qe3+ 49. Kb4 Rb8+ 50. Ka4 Qb3+ 51. Ka5 Qb5# or three if white plays with his h-pawn: 48. h7 Rb8 49. h8=Q Qb1+ 50. Kxa3 Qa1#. Instead, white resigned.
Al is a long-time chess buddy of mine (long time - read: decades), and our games can become pretty entertaining because we're so familiar with each other's styles (which are very different) that it's almost become necessary for us to play a little "I'll ignore you if you ignore me" in the opening to end up with a game that doesn't peter out in a draw. What we've achieved here is a rare sidelight in the Queens Gambit Declined.
So far this is turning into exactly the sort of game Al likes best - closed, featuring incremental positional maneuvering with a slow, deliberate build-up to the final attack. Fischer remarked about this style (speaking specifically of the late German GM Wolfgang Unzicker, as I recall, although he could have as easily mentioned Tigran Petrosian and, later, Anatoly Karpov) that if this patient constricting style doesn't produce a win then it almost always has the not necessarily unhappy consequence of producing a draw.
Black begins to lose patience with all the stodgy maneuvering, expressed by opening this self-inflicted but not completely unjustifiable wound in front of his King. Oddly, I played this more as a defensive resource (albeit aggressive defense), to give g6 to my QB and, obviously, preparing g7 for my KB.
White is winning, but as long as the e-pawn hangs, especially with a check, the situation isn't entirely clear nor the game in the bag.
7. Bd2 ?!<n>It was interesting here what will play my opponent. He follows the theory. But was it his best move ? Black's position looks strong.
and we have interesting position with no any advantage to the whites.
it's time to complete black's development - make ready Bb7 !
19. Rad1 !<n>and now black queen is into danger - 20.Bxh6 ... 21.Bh7+ and the queen is dead. So it's time to  retreat
but white are insidious. They know very well the game flows in muddy stream
black would appretiate bishops exchange
Nothing unusual in this
Black has a trapped bishop
White has a mass of pawns in the centre
Now the game is in Sicilian, Smith-Morra gambit, Chicago defence, the next move for white is 4. Nxc3
Now the game is back in lines of Sicilian, Smith-Morra gambit, Chicago defence
Book
Book
Out of books. The book move is 8. Qe2, but I rather developed my bishop. I don't know, if there are any disadvantages for this move?
I try to weaken his Queen side.
Preparing for attack on King side.
This position I saw back in 14 move , when I predicted, that my opponent will exchange his peaces. I don't know, how black should react in this position.
Is this OK? I don't play Nf6 right away in case White does Ng5.
Why this move?
Asking for an exchange.
A standard Dragon position of the d6 Open Sicilian. This opening is well known for being one of the most aggressive and crazy openings in chess theory.
?!? 21.Rxh5 would have won on the spot, but this sacrifice is also very interesting. After this White definitely has the advantage.
It wasn't so great, isn't it?
This allows Qa4+ and then Qxa2, but I felt a lot of danger in it.
If 13... Nxd4, 14. BxB, NxNf3+, 14. BxN, with good game. But I wasn't sure about it.
I didn't see this.
I begin with my usual King's Pawn Opening.
This is a bit of an inaccuracy, because it only creates an open file for the rook, which won't be used until later on, while dxc6 opens up a file for the queen and a long diagonal for the LSB.
This defends the e-pawn, but prevents the move of the d-pawn, postponing the effective development of the LSB (the a-pawn and the c6-pawn are preventing Bb7 from being an effective development).
Black castles.
I have won a piece for a pawn.
I have plans to attack sooner or later, but first, I complete minor piece development.
? I can win a pawn from this, and black has messed up his kingside.
Faced with a weak position and an overwhelming material disadvantage, black resigns. Thanks for the game, rogerb23.
i played this game at a mini tournament where i was about to regain rating after severe timeout losses. out of an unorthodox reti opening developed the biggest avalanche i ever experienced in chess.<n><n>also note that (despite a handful of bishop moves) all blacks pieces only move towards ONE direction ^^
yeah this is surfing a wave!
Nf5 was better, exchanging to relieve Black's cramped position; this dictum was not generally known at this time however.
Lasker comes out of the opening and middle game with a decided advantage. The bishop pair and key space control give black a hard position.
Tempting for Black but the better policy would be to mark time.
The way I usually start for an agressive game
That leaves me 6 points up in material, and I have a 3rd plan (this is really the first game where after my first plan fails, I materialised another one or two, I'm really really happy (with the expcetion of move 7) of how I played this game. Whats important to me, is that after my gameplan failed, due to a mistake of mine, I was able to make the best of it, and pull back before attacking again. The 3rd plan will come to light on move 21 or 22, but I told my opponent I wanted to annotate this game, so he may be reading this hehe...
In my opinion, the game was already over, but Black put up a good fight
This position, I analysed for quite a while, I know all too well, when things get a tad tight, if I make a mistake, it could all but cost me the game
Also a good time to make the capture. Not much Black can do, but at least he isn't resigning. I find it difficult to develop my endgame, more than any part of my game, because so many resign when in a losing position. Im focusing on 'winning a won game' in the next month or so...
Here White resigned, and fairly so, 5 moves away from mate as far as I could see, and Black wasnt in the game for most of the Match...<n><n>Thanks guys !
it is better to not play this move so early in the game. White should focus on continuing to develop his pieces.
...Nd5 is possible but still premature. It is better to complete your piece development before engaging in combat.
a hopeless game when looking at the grade difference but it is always good playing someone who is a grandmaster to learn that tiny bit extra!
an opening i don't usually play but one i decided to try
i don't oblige
he takes my offer
i don't understand
pull it to protection- my i'm in an ugly position
forget it
why don't i try and get a queen
this game seems hopeless
getting away and stopping any further threat of a queen for a while
no choice
this blatant bullying
here the game comes to a finish with an expected and the inevitable CHECKMATE! what i would have wanted to know was what had i played that mainly caused my loss- queen takes that tempting pawn? or simply the opening i played! dunno! i lost but i definitely learned one thing: never get to conceited or should i say over yourselves when you get in the lead- a quick downfall is always likely! thanks for reading!!
This is not an opening choice that presents the most attacking potential for white. The moves up to 2...dxe4 are book for the Dunst Opening.
Black applies pressure to e4 while developing the king side.
Black selects a good move which recaptures the piece while offering protection to the pawn structure in the event of Bd3xf5. The only drawback to this move is the weak c7 and b7 squares, but white does not have the means to take advantage of this yet.
Black has a gain in development and stands a little better.
It is a free pawn, but sometimes they carry a heavy price.
Black pursues an attack.
Black takes a free piece and applies a check which drives the king to the corner - the most limiting square on the board. A fun but unecessary move. Qe5xh2# is decisive.
Win 0-1. The most predominant aspect that can be observed in this game is that it is better to develop pieces, castle, then begin an attack on the center or side where is makes most sense. Timing makes the difference for an attack, as does having enough pieces developed so they can assist. The queen is not able to achieve mate alone - other pieces are needed.
What the hell! Let's see who's first! :-)
I'm not so sure, but it just looked magnificent. :-) Black cannot play b3 now. He can break in, but he lost valuable tempos without an attack plan. The old lesson: attacks has to be as quick and mortal as possible, It is very rare for an "under 2000" to be able to judge when he can "slowly prepare" the attack... without becoming a victim of an attack himself. So, don't wait.
Bxg5 is fine, but this is "quicker and stronger" :-)
What a white pieces' storm...
What did he see here that spooked his king? Maybe he hoped I would play Nf3  so he could take it with his queen and check me. This in my opinion cost him the game.
Taking the rook and opening the f file.
Checkmate. Black wins. This was a good game for me. It allowed me to see some mistakes I've made. mpinck seems to be a better player that this game shows. If you would take out the opening of just trying to trap a checkmate for easy win and put in some development I think he would have won.
French defense opening, which has a reputation for solidity and resilience, though it can result in a somewhat cramped game for Black in the early stages. Black often gains counterattacking possibilities on the queen-side while White tends to concentrate on the kingside(wikipedia.com).
Black still has not made a castle, but for white there is no time to wait and see whether black castle to the king- or queen-side. Funny to notice that at least the predictions of a French opening is coming true - White attacking king-side and black the queen-side
White is now opening the black kingside and black seems a bit paralyzed and has apparently stopped attacking white. black h-pawn is lost if not black find a quick way to occupy white with something else. I was now expecting 18...c4, would I then pulled back my white sq. bishop or continued my attack, e.g. 19. fxe6 cxd3 20. exd7
Bg7! And now there is a lot of tactical chooses to make for black. <n>Which is the best one for black?<n>Unfortunately I have trouble finding any good ones. This is one suggested line; 21. Bg7 fxe4 22. Bxh8 Bxd5 23. Bxf6 Qd7 24. Rg8  Bf8 25. Re1
As far as I can see the black queen is lost whether black did take the time to fetch a knight or not
Thanks for the game and Im very happy for comments!
This deprives the b-knight the c6 square, which is its most natural post.  The move does have the virtue of opening the a5-d8 diagonal for the queen.
Now, it is almost comical.  The move allows the bishop to be developed, but it bottles up the queen again.  Is black hoping to get all of his pawns on the 6th?  I've seen this curious play before, where players forget about their pieces and move only pawns.  It isn't to be recommended.
Black offers the queen trade, but why open the h-file for black?  It would just help him untangle his kingside pieces.
White doesn't mind trading down into an ending, however.  The extra pawn, which is soon to become passed, will be decisive.
Creating a passed pawn on the c-file no matter what black does.
Hi everyone!<n><n>Alex gave me a much harder time this time round in the Traxler.  I somehow managed to get my pawn back and then he embarked on an attack with a rook sacrifice.  Sadly for him the sac proved to be unsound and I went on to win the game comfortably after that.  Anyhow - we start the action on move 6 where Alex chose 6. Bc4.
44. h5?? - Alex is lost anyway but this makes things so much easier to wrap up the game more quickly.  Glenda's re-appearance on the board is imminent after Ra1 as the WR is pinned to his king.  If RxR then PxR = Q.  Alex waves the white flag.  Commiserations and Good Effort Alex - Joanne
This opening is called the Grunfeld which is popular with people who want<n>  to counter attack with the Black pieces. It is Bobby Fischer's and Garry Kasparov's they use it as a dynamic and popular weapon!<n><n> 3.d6 however is the King's Indian Defence ( KID)
The lines with 4. Bf4 can usually be dangerous for Black, mostly because of the slight move order nuances oblige different types of reaction to movesof which look very similar. But however, there is no real theoretical danger for Black and a well-prepared player will have very good chances in this line.
6. cxd5 Nxd5 7. Nxd5 Qxd5 8. Bxc7 Nc6 9. e3  Bf5 gives Black more than compensation for the pawn because of his impressive lead in development.
This move completely neutrilizes White's opening system. Black srikes at the centre right away and also highlights the weekness of the f4 sqaure and also stops white playing f4.  10.. e6 however keeps all the tension in the position
Now have a look at this position before you continue. Black has many possibilities for creativity, Black's opening play is a definate success. White has the advantage of the 2 Bishops but on the other hand he has bad pawn structure. White has some ways to build the pressure up here. It is also easy for White to screw up here because without his 2 bishops there is nothing at all good about his position. Blacks target now is to try and swap one of White's Bishops off.
It retreats.....
White stops himself from trying TOO hard to win just in time and they agreed a draw. The Rook endgame is equal. Still either side can try to win. But there is a really serious risk of losing the game.<n><n>GOOD GAME!! I thought anyway. Shows you what the Grunfeld is all about.<n> Soon I might annotate another game with the Grunfeld.  I hoped you guys enjoyed the game and expect to see another game soon!
black safly castles
kings side attack preparing
black spies something else
game over for white
Most of my games begin like that.<n>My computer chessgame tells me this is not so good, but i like it.<n>I must say i often have trouble in classic games, but in blitz with short time,<n>it surprises opponents, and i win many games that include this opening.<n><n>One more detail: we both play very fast; even if it is a 2 days per move game, the maximum is 3 minutes between 2 moves (both addicted to the game that night!).
No need to attack N anymore. I think h line opening is good for me at the moment but maybe i should have played O-O.
Time to make the 2nd rook come in the game.
K managed to leave Queen's side: if he had played O-O, he would have never faced so big trouble and Whites would have lost.
d6 is dead, but a3 wins the game.
This is the end for Blacks: without rooks, a3 is really THE winner of the game.
And we have a Sicilian for the match.
This is the Open Variation, the most commonly leading into the Dragon, Najdorf or Classical lines.
I'm most comfortable with this. Lately I've been wondering about another varation called the Canal-Sokolsky Attack, where White plays Bb5+ here, usually met by Bd7, Bxd7+, Qxd7, with White having a few options for development on his 5th... But that is an annotation for another time.
I'm not overly worried about it, so I just continue with my development.
Likewise, this move allows development, countering the influence of my Na4, and also allows defense of b4 via Rb8.
If the Black Queen has to retreat, it cannot defend b4, allowing me to win the exchange. Meanwhile, Black cannot exchange right now either (bxa3?? Qxa5!!).
This is a mistake, however- the first of many that spirals Black into a nightmare of mishaps. Black saw that the knight would have to retreat, but didn't understand what made this gambit so dangerous in the first place. Can you see it?
For starters, the pawn wasn't dropped on e5. Black cannot capture this knight without paying dearly for it. A certain attack is made possible if Black does not give up his pawn on d4 right now...
And the door slams shut on the Black Queen's fate.
Black wanted to shoo the rook away, but I don't care about my rooks this game.
And his King falls. This was a fun and quick game, and I'll be sure to offer him his rematch once my games quiet down a little bit. It's good to be back, GameKnot! Thanks for reading this annotation! :)
The Sicilian defense is one of the most popular choices for black.
Continuing with the theme of queenside counterplay, black attacks the c-pawn a second time.
I preferred this to the alternatives at the time, but it does lead to a further reduction in material.  Black stands no worse, but has little prospect of creating winning chances.
Following the captures, black has lost his "dragon" bishop, but his remaining bishop is better than white's.  This is not enough to make a difference in the game, however.
Rather a boring opening in my opinion.
What is this? Pawn domination?
Hi all. Here is my ten-cents' worth from my past few games - although, looking at its quality, it probably doesn't even make 2 cents. It is a very short, and not particularly well-played, game. Just intended as a lesson to avoid playing certain openings...well, one opening in particular. In this game, during a lunch break, I am playing against my friend Hugo Mason in the calm and quiet of the library. And, unfortunately, as usual (??!?!?!?!?) Hugo uncorks his new favourite opening: the Hummuschluggg!!!! (have I got the spelling right?)
Hence my knowing grin. I already know from experience that Hugo will continue like this. White's opening has gone from the weak to the horrific with this horrendously awful 2nd move. White has ticked all the "don't" boxes in the opening manuals: don't bring your king out early, don't waste time with pointless pawn moves, don't expose your position, etc. etc. Let's see how Black exploits White's awful opening.
Bad move. In previous annotations in which the Hummuschluggg has been played (ask jstevens!!) White has followed up with 3.e3 4.g3, or 3.g3 4.e3. Both these moves do not develop, and therefore increase Black's chances of winning with quick development followed by an early attack. However, I can see the logic behind these moves: these close all the attack lines pointing towards White's king, allowing White to continue and develop in relative quiet for the next few moves, without any irritating checks. White's move here looks good initially, striking at the centre to try to deal with Black's control, however, it completely opens up the c5-f2 diagonal attack line, allowing me to attack down it.
Black's developing-with-tempo sequence plan comes to fruition. Black now controls a lot of central space, has a lead in development, and has a very strong position to attack from. White is now completely lost - although some people will argue he was lost from 2.Kf2??. If 4.Ke1, 4...dxe4! 5.fxe4 Qh4+!! 6.Ke2 Qf2+ 7.Kd3 and White's exposed king will lose him the game soon enough. 4.Ke2 keeps the king in relative safety, however, White's position is too slow to develop, as the bishop and queen are blocked by the misplaced king on e1, and Black will be able to develop and attack, completely unhindered. And, finally, if 4.Kg3 - we'll soon see what happens. Nobody spoil the surprise! :-)
Apart from anything else, this would have appealed to Hugo's rather over-imaginative sense of adventure. The heroic king, swashbucking across the board, leading his inspired army to victory: I can see the storybook potential of that. Hugo definitely would have liked that. However, Black has a reply that probably does not appeal to Hugo's sense of adventure at all:
I'm not much of an e5 player, but I chose to play it because I was hoping for a real Morphy King's Gambit game.
An attempt to solve the e4 pawn, but instead later it allows me access for a decent post in his territory.
I'm still unsure of this move, perhaps just for a development and for a battery?
Development
I figured I had decent position and I was welcome to the trade; however, my opponent fell for the trap....
There's the Qb2...i get an extra pawn and let the trade occur
I am annotating this game for a member of my team, so I will only mention black moves which I feel are significant
A variation on the main line Ng3, a useful variation to aviod the main Sicilian line, which is the most played opening on Gameknot, as well as tournament level play, and can get repetitive.
White's centre is vulnerable, black would be better of playing Nc6 to attack the pawn, continue development and slow white down by forcing him to defend it
Black decides to develop his queen too early anyway. You should refrain from developing the queen until you have pieces to back it up
A needless attack causing white to fall even further behind. A trade-off of queens would help white equalize, after Qxe7, Nxe7, Rxc5 and white has managed to win back his pawn, with equality
Black quickly begins to snap up white's pawns, at this point white has lost
White played fairly well here, with a few mistakes, his biggest was the loss of his e5 pawn, would lead to an advantage for black throughout the game.
jolie combi bravo, toute les pieces s'y mettent !
So I start with this, easing the threat of Nd5, blockading the pawn.
I was a bit surprised at this move - it came quickly, and I hadn't really analysed PxN fully; it had to be good - but Fritz gives it as the best, though it drops a pawn.
23. ... QxQ isn't an option in light of the zwischenzug 24. BxP+, and I'm two pawns up.   So I get to keep the queens on, which has to help me.
Continuing to develop pieces and establish control of the middle of the board.
A trade is obviously not a good idea in this situation, and Qa6 leaves my Queen too confined, Qd3 moves my Queen back on to a move open field.
This second check forces him to block the check with either his Queen or his Rook.  If he blocks with his Queen, I can take it off with bxc6 and then if he takes my Knight with his Rook on e1, I can use cxd4+ to put his King in check again with my Bishop and force mate in a few different varations, but nonetheless force Rb4 dxe3 taking his Rook on e3 and leaving the other one pinned to his King, continuing on in something like mate in 5 as follows:<n><n>41. g4 Qxc3+ <n>42. Ka2 Bxb4 (this move takes off his second rook)<n>43. g5 Ba3<n>44. g6+ fxg6 or g6+ Kxg6<n>45. Kb1 Qb2#
He effectively protects his Rook, but his d5 pawn is now gone and this game is virtually over.
A good move here as he protects his g4 pawn and Rook at the same time after the move of ... Qd4.  However, I might not have taken off the g4 pawn in exchange for my pawn at b6 since his pawn isn't really a threat, and I would rather keep three pawns on the board instead of just two.
The key is to offer both sides plenty of positional troubles and goals to solve, while keeping tactics alive and well. That means there should be contact and tension between the forces, and the position needs some real imbalance to it positionally. If you turn it to a tactical melee, it is not really about safety check, but about calculation and tactical skills.
My opponent does not know the theory of this line, which is great for me.
Generally, it is a mistake to play this kind of way, allowing my center to grow more powerful. However, white has a tactical idea in mind.
Now white has a real problem to solve- his king. Also, the bishops are in contact with the white army, and could attack the weaknesses. White really has no tactic chances vs black. OK, black did have to sacrifice a pawn to do it, but so what? White cannot promote that extra pawn. The desciption fits the typical club player, who in this case is stronger than average. He likes material and highly values it, so subconsciously rejected ...Nd5 as being good for white, since he wins a pawn. He is willing to go through these troubles since he has the pawn. In my opinion, he is fighting a losing battle.
Black has already a completed development, while white still suffers trouble. These moves for me were made very fast, while the opponent is already half an hour used up.
(??) Now black is losing immediately. Is the white player weak? Some strong players may say so, but he is in the strong level if he were to play on the site, probably well in the 1900/2000 range if he takes his time, but it depends on how much time he uses, of course. The point is that white had to concentrate so hard on his positonal troubles, and failed to safety check the black ideas. This happens naturally to most club players. That is the reason for them to make these tactical blunders without being in a tactical position.
The white's king is in the center, so we should attack it by opening. This follows the idea of using ALL your advantages in a position.
Main line Queen's Gambit Declined.
I don't know what this is technically classified as, but I would call it a sort of Bogo-Indian.  Black attempts to misplace my pieces with this check.  I can either play Nc3 and transpose to the Nimzo-Indian, or play Bd2, when the normal move is Be7.
Winning the tempo for Black, though it doesn't really matter in this position.
Even though material equality has been re-established, White still has a winning position because of his central control.  The center is always the most important area of the board, whether you control it with your pawns (classical) or your pieces (hyper-modern) is your decision.
Look at Black's pieces, they are all on the back rank!  If I were playing Petrosian I would be very scared (lol), but anyone else this tells me that I am won!
Another piece on the c-file!  It seems so simple doesn't it?  Sometimes I wish chess were always this easy, then I could actually be good at it....
I think this may actually win by force, though I haven't checked all the lines.  Do you see what f6 left behind?<n><n>The defense of the g6 pawn!
I hope you enjoyed the game.
The opening is Sicilian Defence, Najdorf Variation. This opening has been played a lot at grandmaster level.
This is first time I deviate from the theory. 9. Nbd7 is the most played move here. 9. O-O is probably not that good, although I found out that even Bobby Fischer played this once (Unzicker-Fischer, Buenos Aires 1960), but lost that game.
And now we are definitely out of the book. As shown later in the game, the rook does not belong here. But I was worried that White plays Bh6 at some point and I wanted to be able to play Bf8 for defence, and possibly Ne8 if necessary. However, especially with opposite side castling, concrete lines are more important than vague ideas.
Norwalde Variation of the King's Gambit.
Bueker Gambit of the Norwalde Variation...
Black generally does pretty well taking this pawn--even at the risk of getting the queen chased (which slows development).
The Steinitz standard.
The Italian Game.
The standard (or "book") move, which aims to support playing d4.
The most aggresive continuation. White is playing to maintain the tempo he has by virtue of having the first move of the game. Control of the center is the aim!
Black now sets the table for a feast of tactical captures.
Black takes the bait.
! In his personal notes, Steinitz called his knight "A bone stuck in poor old Bardeleben's throat!"
!! Steinitz now has MULTIPLE threats, including winning the black queen with a discovered check!
Steinitz sees this, and just keeps right on hammering away. His threat against c8 is still alive and strong should black move his queen.
Steinitz can dance this dance all night long...........
In utter frustration, Bardeleben just stared at the board and let his time expire. A beautiful attack by Steinitz, where his opponent was literally doomed no matter what he played after move 22. I hope you have enjoyed it:) - Thomas
Still in the development phase with no real threat from either side.
Not too sure what this was for
Two developed pieces against a single (but strong) central pawn. Let's see!
I know, but I just don't know how to play this without this move. It can be delayed, though.
This is the best square for my dsb in this opening.
It's ok. But black is starting to lead the game. White can play b4 later, but Nb1... has no square for some move on!
A little help for me. White pawns are nearer. If Nc3 (say), Ng4 and white has to defend. Nothing too bad, but, as often with this scheme, a tense and nice game, with the "who'll get in faster" factor that I love.
I think this is the wrong pawn. White won't have time to play b4-b5.
? If not for the Ne2, I'll play Nxg3, no doubt.
This means: "all black pieces are pointing at a naked white K..." While white's are almost useless. With 2 or 3 moves, white will crush my K, but until then...
White is up four points.  Every trade works to white's further advantage.  I'm not sure why this was preferred to NxB, though it does prep BxPg6, a sweet move picking off the remaining black rook.
This splits black's right side pawns.
Normally White has already played c4 in this variation, and Black has to watch out for the d5 break
We started off with a dutch defense opening.
Not all of my pieces are developed yet, so perhaps this was a little preemptive.  However, it gets the game going and allows for excellent position.
The Bishop's Game. Not the most popular anymore, but theoretically equal, and with some good chances for White if Black is unprepared.
This is the Berlin Defence, probably the most standard modern reply.
Transposing to the Vienna Game.
4.f4 is the book move here, not that we're at all off the GK database yet. The main intent of the Vienna Game, though, is generally for White to transpose into a favorable line of the King's Gambit. There's no danger of Black winning the e-pawn for free, because 4.f4 Bxc3 is met with 5.dxc3 Nxe4 6.Bxf7+ Kxf7 8.Qd5+ and White wins the Knight back with a strong position.
Black accepts the offer.
Game on. Everything White has is aimed at the BK.
Black adds a defender for g7 momentarily, but this Knight is destined for f4, in an attempt to shut the WQ out of the attack or force a trade to lessen the pressure.
! This sacrifice shuts down White's attack entirely, for if 16.Bxf8 Rxf8, White has exchanged a powerful, aggressive piece for an entirely passive one of his opponent's. 15...Nf4! also shuts the WQ out of the attack, and thanks to the doubled pawns it is completely untouchable without at least an even exchange--which is to say, a favorable exchange for Black.
! This pawn is worth much more than the h-pawn (especially since 23...Nxh5? is met by 24.Qg5! g6 25.Rh1 with a winning attack (thanks to tiger_lilov for the continuation)). Black is also looking to force a trade of Queens, and with the WQ gone and no more reason to block that diagonal, Black's heroic Knight will have one final blow to deal to the White forces--24.Rxg7?? dxc3+! 25.Qxc3 Qxc3+ 26.Kxc3 Ne2+!
?? I debated rating this only a mistake, but I really think this is the blunder that costs White the game. After this exchange he will be behind in material and have a vastly inferior pawn structure. 25.Qe3 would have been a far better choice, threatening to get behind the Black lines to deadly effect with Qa7.
Now it's down to a Rook-and-Pawn endgame--White has an advantage in superior King placement, but his pawns are tremendously vulnerable, and Black has the initiative.
White doesn't have much choice in the matter.
?? White overlooks that the Rook can capture without any detriment to Black's position. He was already lost, but this clinches it, as now Black will have passed pawns on both sides of the board.
Black leaves the WK tied down at the edge of the board while he mobilizes his own.
White has the opposition, but Black has a huge advantage--two connected, passed pawns just out of reach.
0-1. It's over for White; he loses either the d- or f-pawn next turn (with 48.Kc3 or 48.f5 respectively), and Black's queenside pawns will tie up the White King with perfect immunity (if the King takes the rear pawn, he cannot catch the other one) while the BK escorts the g-pawn to the queening square. Thanks very much to sieni01 for the excellent game, and I hope you all enjoyed seeing it. Comments on the analysis or the game itself are much appreciated; if you leave a rating please also comment letting me know what you liked or what I could do better. Thanks for reading!
Hi everyone!  This game was played in a themed MT with reference to Brigadecommander's (Janet's)  Stonewall Project which has thrown up some very interesting results.  For your's truly it was another milestone.  I actually defeated a former Expert who is a Runner in our Walking the Walk and Learning to Run group who resigned on the grounds of UNAVIOIDABLE MATE! Glen lost a lot of rating points partly due to form and timeout issues.  At the start of this game his rating was 1908 so I had to be content with only my third near-Expert Victory and retain my current username rather than an Expert Victory and the username "The Black Queen".  So, how did all this happen?  Well, read on .......
1. ..... d5 - here is a double queen pawn opening.  However, the next move does not follow the standard c4 which is the Queen's Gambit.  It is this move that is the start of the Stonewall.
9. exd4 - pawn trade.
10. fxe5 - B for N trade.
And Black goes for the Philidor's Defense. I'm not a real fan of this opening for Black. I think it's a tad passive, and allows White to just charge right into the center with attacking power. I can't remember any time where this opening gave me pause- is there a value in e5-d6 this soon at all?
He takes. Probably best- I can't see much value in Bg4 if White has dxe5.
I prefer Nxd4. Qxd4 apparently does equally well in the databases, but say if you've played the Scandinavian defense as White, Qxd4 is usually immediately met by Black playing Nc6. Why throw a queen out when it just gets chased away?
Once again, opting to passively protect the two strongest squares for the bishops to be on, but I think this is mostly a waste of time for Black. Black only has 1 back rank piece and no stake in the center, against my near perfect control of the center and three developed back pieces! White is clearly better here.
But I did know I was very happy in pinning that pawn. Now the Bh6 lives whether Black wants it to or not, and I have a very dangerous attack in mind.
MATE! I have never seen myself in a steadily worsening material disadvantage (the move before this I was at MINUS EIGHT!) to land myself into a checkmate. I was very thrilled to have pulled this off, even against a lower ranked opponent, as I was sure I made so many mistakes this match. Was there ways for both sides to have played this better? Thanks for reading the annotation!
Here is my last game, and only loss, in my own mini-tournament - especially painful as I was 5 points up at the time of the clever checkmate!
At first glance, my knights are very powerful: look at them, exercising their power across the (closed) queenside! However, it is soon clear that these knights are forever locked out of the game. So I am actually 3 points behind! I think this is the long-term and most important cause of my eventual destruction.
A sort of queens gambit in reverse
Now we see white, playing materialisticly, attempting to save the pawn on c5. This move, however, leaves the rook open to attacks along the a1-h8 diagonal. A queen on f6 would be a strong move here. This is why e6 was played last move.
All as standard for this opening.
At this point in the tournament, knowing nothing about this opening, (though having read the annotations from the first annotation project), I felt rather out of my depth. It seems to me though that if I can restrict whites development, and swap a few minor pieces off, I may have a chance. Trouble is, all my pieces are too restricted at the moment, so 9...e4 to provide more options for the queen and bishop. (Now it seems accepted that ...Bg7 is the best move.)
And then I saw a potential threat involving a double attack on his g pawn.
I'm happy to swap my isolated pawn for his f-pawn, along with a rook exchange.
Hoping to find an opening at the Black Queen.
Getting to the end game; every Pawn is valuable.
R for R, and am hoping for B for B.
White is hoping to grind this one down.
An early knight move that has no forces backing it up.  It will be easy to chase it off and gain time developing my own forces.
Basic development, but also preparing to limit moves for the WQ.
Avoiding BxN, which would trade a good bishop for a Knight on the side of the board.  The WN has no scope unless several moves are used to reposition it.
The Caro-Kann is one of my favorite defenses. Black has all the advantages of the french and none of it's weaknesses. The only two weaknesses of the Caro-Kann are that black usually is a little worse in the endgame and white has an enduring space advantage. But in this game I choose to play a risky varation of the Caro-Kann; the Little know Bronstein-Larsen defense.
Here White chooses to exchange on f6 immediately Black has three main options <n>1. 6. ...Ndxf6 with an interesting game.<n>2.  play exf6 which leads to the Kornchoi defense<n>3. As I play gxf6 of the bronstien-Larsen Caro-Kann varation.
This is in my opinion an inferior move for black and is not for beginner players. I play it from time to time to spice things up. If black can survive the first wave of attacks by white he can usually get good counter play along the g file. This is known as the Bronstein-Larsen formation.<n> <n>Black's strategy is simple 1. Place the H rook on the g file where it will eye the weak g2 pawn. 2. Develop the bishops to the King side. 3. Prepare for a f6-f5-f4 pawn break. 3. Castle Queen side. Amass huge pressure on the g file by playing Qg5, or Qh5. Of course that is if he can do all that before white deals a quick blow! However, as seen in this game Black has major weakness , but it is not easy for white to exploit it with accurate play. Thus, after black endure the initial attack he can usually mount a sufficient attack along the G file, or white's weak d5 pawn.<n> <n>Black can also play exf6 moving into the Kornchoi variation. In that setup black has strong defensive and attacking chances. see this game for an<n><n>example: http://gameknot.com/chess.pl?bd=5122032
it is pretty hard to resist this move with a gapping hole on f6
so far despite Black's inferior 6th move White has not found a real way of exploiting the weakness. Matter of fact, black is slowly consolidating his position.
The exchange of queens would be in favor of black. <n><n>18. Qxf6 Bxf6 and Black's king side comes alive.
After I played this move I regretted it. I should have tried 22. ...h5. But my worry was that h5 is premature and I wanted to wait and see if White would become impatient and attack e6 prematurely. After which my mobilized king side pawn storm would have some teeth.  Still if others want to take this position where I feared to tread be my guest. I think h5 is playable. A possible continuation may be:<n><n>22. ...h5!? 23. Nf4(White's most active defense) Bf8(maneuvering to d6) 24. Rf3 Bd6 and white holds but black has a slight tactical edge.
here I was really starting to worry about the increasing pressure on e6. Someone who wants to play this Bronstein-Larsen variation of the Caro-Kann must have nerves of steel. Yet, in this game white still has not exploited Black's weakness!
White could have played Nf4 which I think is more in keeping of the spirit of his play. This allows black to gain tempo of the queen.
The breakthrough! At long last this is the point of Black's 6th move. The major motif of Black's game is to aim for this pawn push. If he is allowed to to play it it usually is lights out for white. Black's king pawns become a one man wrecking crew.
The position is rip for a mating attack. All of my pieces are concentrated in the king's position. White however, only has the knight to aid in the defence of the king.
from black's point of view the pressure over d4 is reduces by Bb5, as white can even exchange the bishop for the knight,  so we have a few possible choices here:<n>a) 3...g6 so black can fiancheto the bishop and regain some pressure over d4<n>b) 3...e6 with the idea Nge7, if possible before the exchange of white's bishop, then Bb5 would lack it's point<n>c) 3...d6 preparation of Bd7, after exchange Bxc6 Bxc6, black would exert pressure over e4<n>d) 3...a6 in my opinion a bad choice, as it loses one tempo so white can exchange and black could have developed a piece or opened some lines with a pawn advance, in this case just lost that oportunity<n>e) 3...Qc7, also losing tempos with the queen not my first choice also<n>f) 3...Nf6, is at the same time a solid choice but also a very fighting one, Richard Palliser, in His book "The Bb5 Sicilian" called this 3...Nf6 the fashionable line, due to several recent successful games with it, so this will be my choice for this game...
and now the e pawn is lost for white
Stopping the pawn, but letting a wide hole on g6.
Cashing the wrong rook! In fact, it is very dangerous to leave this central black dominance.
Paying the price of taking the wrong rook. Now black has all his pieces active...
No pawns, no hope for black.
Very rare that in multiple days time control I get an exchange on d5.
My opponent goes bd3 here and in the past when facing this I would always exchange lsb's here and let their queen come out.
But when he replied this I judged that letting him exchange wouldn't be good anymore and since he doesn't seem to want to exchange on f6 I don't mind tempting him with letting him open the file
Final piece development for white before castling
This here is very scary to me and that passed pawn is a ticking time bomb now!
What's this my Knight is going opposite way! his 3 pieces and a pawn vs 2 pieces, black has gone insane!
My opponent gave me a good scare and came at me aggressively. Sadly he ended on two blunders overlooking threats and the strength of my Outpost.<n><n>I hope you all enjoyed this game and comments are always appreciated at any stage.
In between reading the writing on TV adverts and the Sun newspaper, I happened across the Queen's Pawn opening in a book. A little knowledge is a dangerous thing and it is exclusively how I open as white.
A45 Indian Defense. The immediate development of the Knight is the most supple response to the Queen's Pawn opening, allowing transposition into virtually every type of defense at Black's disposal.
A56 Indian Defense / Modern Variation 2.c4 c5.<n><n>Glad this has a name - I didn't want to relinquish the centre.
Out of Opening Book. cxb5 would have been in the Indian Defense / Benko Gambit book opening. Slightly better is cxb5. <n><n>Back to click-whirr...
Game annotation for team benefit ... apologies for any mistakes!
The GK world database only includes one game with this line, but I far prefer it to the alternatives. Black prevents White from freeing himself with d2-d4, at least for now.
Black has a slight edge in development thanks to White's misplaced Queen.
I'm not too sure how I feel about this move. On the one hand, White is anticipating the coming endgame by keeping his King centralized. It also is the least disruptive to White's current plans. On the other hand, it's not the endgame *yet* by any means, so Black might be able to make some tactical opportunities against the exposed, centralized King. In the game, I was expecting 18.Bd2.
? This hangs a piece; plain and simple: the heroic Black Knight is undefended!
Can this attack actually succeed? The WK is exposed, but Black has few attackers.
0-1. Here White resigned, which is surprising at first glance and truly may be a bit premature, but a winning combination does exist if Black can find it. White has four possible moves--but it turns out that none of them help. If 29.Kd2, Black gains the Bishop with 29...Qxf2+. Any move to the back rank (Kd1 or Ke1) drops the Rh1; again with check. So what's wrong with Ke3? I've added a possible continuation for fun. Many thanks for an exciting game, barner11!
I'll end the line here, with the move I was thinking I would play. Black is a Knight ahead and he'll soon win more material (e.g. 32.Bf5+ Kd8 33.Qd2 Qf3+ 34.Kc2 Re2; all other lines work out about the same). Thanks for reading! If you see a way out for White that I've missed after 28...Nxf4+, do let me know!
I annotated my other game against mrcollio in this mini-tournament a little while ago. I was playing extra carefully in this, the return match, because I knew he would be after revenge!
If my opponent wanted to get me "out of the book" he has certainly managed it! This is the Reti/Spielmann Variation, very rare in comparison the the main line 2.d4, and I had never seen it before in my life. Not a good start.
I simply continued with the core idea of the French Defence, pretending it was the main line. This is the most usual response to the Reti/Spielmann Variation as well.
Black's position is unfortunately very cramped, with both bishops completely blocked in. In particular, Black's light'squared bishop is stuck behind Black's c- and e- pawns, as well as his d2-knight - at least Black's dark-squared bishop has an easy exit after Ng6. However, I was hoping to target the pawn on e5, which was not currently protected by any other pawns: if this pawn falls, Black can expand his cramped postion.
So I unveil the time-honoured way of undermining the d-pawn in the main line French Defence.
Suddenly attention shifts. Now the pressure starts piling up against - you've guessed it - the e5-pawn. The e5-pawn is under multiple attacks for the second time in the game.
Black has a passed pawn. I had high hopes for turning this into a queen, but this was by no means easy, as queen-and-pawn endings like this one are much more unstable and unpredictable than rook-and-pawn endgames.
White resigned. He cannot avoid a queen exchange, after which Black's two passed pawns will be unstoppable.
This is my second game against jstevens1, one of the higher-rated players in this tournament, and if I'd been told at the start of the tournament that I'd take a single half point from one of the top two players here, I'd have been very happy ;) Over the past couple of years, I have followed many of jstevens1's annotations, and progress through the ranks, so was delighted to have the opportunity to play against her in this tournament. Having lost as black I was out (but not hopeful) for revenge! Proceed forthwith to move 9 where the real action starts...
This is a great blitz move, it'lll work here too. No one under 1812 ever refutes it ...
This position is slightly favorable to black, but at least white has the initiative for the moment.
What else? ...g5 was a good choice too, depending on black's long-term strategies.
This was one of the crucial positions of the game. As tempting as it might be for some to think taking on c3 would be good for black, a closer look reveals it may not be. My opponent saw this, but unfortunately did not see the best move here. Ba6 seemed kind of awkward to me, and to Fritz. Fritz much preferred Be6 or g5; Qe7 is also playable.
Better was ...exf4, after which black is better. But with this move, white has an opportunity to have a lasting advantage. I take it...
...d5 or ...a4 were good choices. This choice I'm not so sure about.
b4 was also good here, but this is the best continuation at this point.
The first real indication that I might have something else planned besides the queenside. However, my opponent doesn't realize the significance of the bishop move. Yet.
So slow, in fact, that I decide to hide my king altogether before proceeding. In actuality, I'm just lucky he did not move Qf8 here. How can my opponent fail to see the imminent danger, in retrospect, is hard to understand.
The ill-fated black defense.
THIS time I gave thought to the mate; ...Ke8 Qh8+ and with the knight coming to f6, it's all over. Black resigned here. So, some simple misdirection, all along planning to sacrifice on h6 if I could. I had a lot of help of course by my opponent in this blitz game. Unless I'm mistaken, most proper Sicilian black moves try to get white castled on the queenside, since black hopes to attack down that side. With my King untroubled over on the kingside, black's remaining pieces are very much unprepared to help defend his own king, directly or indirectly.
In a resent game I had a opponent try Nxc3. I achieved a huge central pawn phalanx's and when on to win easily.<n><n>http://gameknot.com/annotation.pl?gm=10358
Black has a slight edge in the centre.
This is a very imposing pawn.
This is a bit odd. The queen does not exert much influence from here. Besides black gives back the pawn for nothing in return.
getting rid of my nice fianchetto bishop was not an easy decision but I have seen that this isolates C pawn(which black will have to contently defend) and makes advancing my queen pawns easier in the endgame. This move may have suprised Mercutio abit.
Excellent move that in my haste I totally missed. This move completely busts open my king and leaves it exposed. This also creates a weakness for black to exploit. This pawn has had an amazing career
Black seeks to go straight into the endgame and try his luck there. However, the exchange of queens makes my connected queen side pawns very dangerous. Better in my opinion is Qc8. However, given the fact that Mercutio sees that he is almost 400 points stronger than me he takes his chances in the end game. But one of the strongest parts of my game is the endgame. Also in my favor is that I have a clear plan for victory.
preparing for b4 and denying the use of the c file for black.
The exchange would make life easy for white.
black played d6, indicates that he is going for Philidor's defense.
exd4 was played, this is known as the exchange variation of Philidor's defense.
a6 was played, I wasn't sure why black played this move, seems that black is preparing for b5, pawnstorms my queen side?
Now you see why I didn't take the dsb with my knight is actually the right move. Game over stegal said gg even though he lost the game, a dude with good manner.
It's worth removing a rook in exchange for one of your own, is it not?
This wasn't risky of me, was it?
In front of a sicilian, I always play this variation, probably not the best one but I like the central game as well.
It doesn't seem a good move to me because it has little effect and exposes the queen
Black is getting agressive
Black has to develop
the unprotected pieces (see anotation on 13th move) are under attack.
I have no other choice as the rook is pinned
First move of my attack, I need 3 tempi to get dangerous for white. I hope my opponent won't find any quicker attack.
Mistake. It doesn't solve black's problem and the attack on the c knight is too slow. Vlack sould have plaid Rh8. With his material advance, my opponent seems to underestimate the danger.
I have experimented with the sicilian (1...c5) however much prefer to meet the pawn head on with this move
This move aims to trade off material, either with a queen exchange after 13...Qg6 , or trading bishops, as in the game. With such an open king, and the black queen and bishop lurking this is a good plan.
This position looks very aggressive for black, although white has plenty of counterplay, however I couldn't see a knock out blow, so this move Ne5 aims to remove the bishop, and so doubles the pawns on the c and e-files, which should give me an advantage in the endgame
This is the start of my dominance, I now have an active king, and have brought one inactive rook into the game
I was anticipating Kf6, as this is the best move, although I noticed my opponent taking a while on this move (we were both online) so he perhaps calculated this line as a losing one (which I think it is) so wanted to try something different, however this is a bad blunder allowing me to stroll arround gobbleing up his pawns
And my opponent decided to call it a day before it became too bloody. Even after a variation like 37. Kf6 Kxc4 38. Ke5 Kxc3 its easy to see my c-pawn will promote and win the game
Hi everyone!<n><n>My Class C opponent, Manhattan (Janis) gave me a right run for my money in this game.  He seemed to have much the better of things in the middlegame and I fell into a combo which dropped me the exchange.  However, I did manage to salvage two pawns for the exchange and after a queen trade, I found myself with a decisive central pawn push which reduced my opponent's rook to extreme passivity.  One pawn did manage to reach Glendadom.  Although the WK could remove Glenda from the board, he would have to lose his rook in the first place, leaving me a piece and a pawn (a passer at that) to the good.  My opponent waved the white flag.  Gameknot Analysis is provided here:- http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=15749719&rnd=0.12065503177682513
21. cxd5 - I appear to have achieved nothing by this pawn trade.  However, I have opened up a file for my QR.
22. ..... Rec8 - and I double on it.
23. .... Rxc7 - rook trade.
28. .... Nxc5 - I am relieved to see the material count at the bottom of the board reading zero.  However, is the two pawns for the exchange gonna be enough?!  Only time will tell.
33. .... dxc5 - this knight trade has opened up the c column to the WR.  On the plus side my c4 pawn is a passer.  On the minus side, white's d5 pawn is also a passer.  Now which one is the strongest?
38. ..... exd4 - now the queen trade has taken place, just look at those black central pawns - awesome!
attacking my rook here so i got a chance to get whites lsb while doubling his pawns.
This was where i started suspect my capability to win this game, but after a while of thinking i came to a conclusion that whites attack is not dangerous
That's a good move to make anytime you see your opponent is approaching the game with a plan; plus, capturing towards the center of the board is one of the fundementals of Opening Move strategy (or so I've read).
Now you're dictating my defense which is a good strategy to have.
But I didn't see it...
Well played on your part... After the game got going, I didn't have much to say.  You over came that early Rook capture on my part and played strong at the end to systematically take down my Queen and two Rooks... Good game!  (:
My book on the torre discourages the pawn push as it removes the tension and black loses dynamic play.
So it begins, black neglects development for several pawns in exchange for a knight.
I opt for the exchange.
White has a little bit of fight left in him...
Better taking with the N instead of the powerful bishop it seems...  White has not let me get away with this, so it is not that naive as the opening reflects.
Didn´t see this, I must confess. But when you have your pieces in position, you have plenty of solutions to come out with.
A nice ending for a nice game. What started to seem like a boring game, ended up with an interesting position, and since I consider my rival did not do so bad in the middle game, when you have developmental problems at home, you don´t have too many options to come back. An instructive game to show the importance to finish your development properly (unless you have a good reason to do "odd" movements.
So easy19 has been twisting my thumbs for me to annotate this game. Anyways, I called out a challenge to any expert or master in the WtW club as my way of having fun. easy19 was the only one who accepted this challenge, and this is what happens when two twisted players meet. A fight for the center the entire game. WARNING: Don't be fooled by his rating. He is 2200 at heart.
Here we are the great King's Gambit Accepted: Bishops Gambit. I know what some people might say, and yes that Queen can go to h4 and ruin my castle. However, I believe there is some compensation for playing 3. Bc4 instead of 3. Nf6.<n><n>A. The KGA Modern defense can not be played generally.<n>B. The King is perfectly fine on f1 unlike most people might tell you.<n>C. You don't really lose a tempo because Black has to move the queen back at some point in fear of getting trapped on the kingside, and becoming a tempo punching bag.<n>D. It isn't really played much, so it has the fun of not being over analyzed like 3. Nf3 was.<n>E. It's fun to laugh at the "you always have to castle" notion. <n>f. It'll make you smile, so it is worth your while.
King's Gambit: Accepted, Bishop's Gambit, Bogoljubow Defense<n><n>Probably one of the best ways to defend. Basically black is supporting d5 to claim some of the center, and kind of transpose to a modern defense.
I think his king covered it's face with it's hands at this point.
This is kind of like a movie when a person jumps in front of a bullet for another person. And it's all dramatic and stuff. You know?
Getting rid of my good bishop: fixing his pawns. Seriously, do you see how easy 2000+ rated chess is.
My d-pawn is kind of important for center equilibrium. That is why he attacked it. I felt the game tilting his way a little, but not anything unmanageable.
This move is no good! I won't be playing again, it just wastes time.
This is looking very bad, an attack down the c file.
An attack down the g file?
Did'nt see this coming, good move.
Although a piece down for two pawns, thats releived a bit of pressure.
This move saves the game for me I think, White has to be aware of the Bishop coming to c6 with check.
And 19. Qxe6?? gets two question marks, and black is quick to demonstrate why. Always have a way out. White's queen forgets this rule and sells herself cheap, for the price of a bishop+pawn (20. Rxd6? looks like a way to gain an extra pawn out of the queen's death, but after 20. ... Bxe6 21. Rxe6 Kf7, the rook has nowhere to run and must give up the exchange). So white has to settle for just the pawns already captured on e6, trading queen+knight for bishop+two pawns. Instead, white resigns. Almost 13 weeks to play a 19 move game. I've only been with GameKnot for 6 months, and I'm still not used to playing at this pace.
This game was played in a Mini-Tournament with the first 5 moves prescribed: Sicilian Defence, Najdorf Variation.
White is playing conservatively, here, consistent with his 6th move.  This suggests a more the positional approach as presaged by the line 6.Be2, but this game doesn't quite turn out that way.
In effect White has ceded a tempo, but it probably hasn't cost him so very much.  This move opens the line of the Queen, and prevents ...Qb6ch  (if Black is contemplating such a move).
Heading for f6, bearing in mind White is still probably interested in seeing what might be achieved on the K-side.
I'll be honest and state here I'm not altogether clear what the motivation for this is.  As will become clear, White's main focus is on the K-side, and this seems to be a distraction.  It does threaten to win a pawn by 17.cxb5, and the White bishops are effectively raking the Black Q-side right now.
[?!] The GKE (Gameknot engine) calls this an inaccuracy, suggesting instead 21...Qa3, with the idea 22.g5 hxg5  23.hxg5 Ng4!  Probably Black was hoping for 22.g5 Ng4.
[!?]  Instead, the GKE suggested 24...Qxa2  25.Rg1 Qa3  26.Be2 Nxd5 which looks pretty good for White, but then comes 27.Rxg7ch! Kxg7  28.Bh6ch  Kxh6  29.Qxa3 Bxf5  30.Qf3 Nf4  31.Rc6 (?!).  After this wild sequence, I rather think I would prefer to have the Black pieces!
Black pretty much owns the Q-side, but has she enough going on there to counter-balance White's K-side operations?    The GKE assessed the game marginally in Black's favour: -0.51.  Black has the better structure, and the White a-pawn is living on sufferance, but White has the more active pieces.
[?!]  Giving up the exchange!  Was Black's game under such pressure, or was she contemplating a counter-stroke?  No good was 26...Nxd5?? 27.Ng5ch Bxg5 28.f6ch Kg8  29.Bxg5, so that can be laid to rest.  How about 26...Qxa2 instead?  Let's see: 27.Bg5 Qa4 (threatening ...Nxe4)  28.Bxf6 gxf6!  29.Qg4 Rg8  30.Ng5ch! fxg5  31.f6ch! ... (even with such scanty material to hand, the position is a real maelstrom)  31...Kh6  32.hxg5ch Rxg5 33.Qxa4 Bxa4  34.fxe7 Rxh5ch 35.Kg2.  The GKE calls this even, but I rather think Black might have an edge in this position.  What a melee, though!
Interestingly, the GKE called White's advantage significant after Black's 26...Rc2, but this assessment has been trending downwards so rapidly, that it is calling the game near-on even at this point.  Maybe it preferred 29.Bg5 as an improvement?
Active defence: White isn't allowed tine to develop his attack down the g-file, and, in view of the 'X-ray' attack against the h4-pawn, White must exchange queens...
The middle game melee is over, and now we enter an endgame in which Black has an extra pawn for the exchange (i.e. P and B for R).  The 'bishop pair' helps Black, as do her slightly more solid pawns in the centre.  All White's pawns are isolated and weak. At this point, I would not have given much for White's winning chances, but he's not prepared to flag it away yet!
A surprising choice that the GKE calls in error.  I think I would have played 41.Kf5 myself, but I am not convinced that is all that much of an improvement over the text - not if White wants to win: 41.Kf5  Bd3 (Threat ...e3ch) 42.Bxh6ch Kxh6  43.Kxf5 Kxh5 44.Kxf7 e3  45.Rc1 e2 46.Ke6 Kg4 47.Kxd6 Kf3 48.Ke5 Bc4  49.Rc3ch Kf2  50.Rc2 Kf1  51.Rc1ch e1=Qch  52.Rxe1ch Kxe1 53. Kd4 Bxa2 54.Kc5 ... and this ending is drawn.
An alternative was 41....Bg5ch 42.Kxe4 Bxd2.  Does this win a piece and the game?  No: 43.Rc2 f5ch!  44.Kd4 Kf6  45.Rxd2 Bxh5 with an unclear position.
... and submit to the skewer in reply.
[!] Well played White!  It emerges that Black has to shed a bishop to stop this pawn's promotion.
Unable to find a win, White offered a draw, gleefully accepted by Black.  After 64...Kg6  65.Rh8 Black is almost, but not quite, movebound.  None of the pawns could safely move, and the King would have had no moves at all.  That leaves the bishop.  Bishop moves to f5 or g4 simply lost the bishop; and any move to d5, c4 or b3 lost the h-pawn to a skewer.  But Black had one remaining move 65...Bd7!! that would have saved the game.   For a further discussion of this ending check out this thread: http://gameknot.com/club-fm.pl?club=1006&th=21045&pg=-1#last
trying to contain white and start pressure on d4, an attempt to stay with the spirit of the defense.
while this opens up the diagonal for the Indian B, this loses points for black.  maybe ...Nb4 would have helped though the advancing pawns make white even more pleased
this actually decreases the rook's effect on the game
so much for that.  thanks to my gentleman opponent for being so helpful.  we'll see what transpires next time
mnior pieces
takes pawn
no more minor pieces
Time to bully black's queen.
....myself and the buddy are playing some recent games and this is one of those where if you rush or don't pay attention, you get screwed. This game was played relatively quickly and the number of mistakes on both side is silly...but amusing....
....all developmental stuff out of a Scandanavian opening...not even sure if this is right....
SKEWER.....!!! oh for fffffffff......so i decided to take the pawn and 2 pieces for the queen....seeing as i have no choice...!!
...blacks pieces are not devloped with is a help but i am still struggling...
...i am figuring activity with the minor pieces will make him work for the win...his king is stuck and that white bishop is useless so i am material up in effect. All pieces are in game and if i get Rhe1 then its not comfy for black after f4 and f5...
This move is key for white so the game can be balanced.
To be honest when I played Rh6 I foresaw my king coming to c6 however I did not see Nd8+! winning the queen.
I was aiming for a Four Knight opening, and found myself facing a complete unknown alternative (to me, I mean). It is an interesting gambit that I clearly did not take advantage of. Seems like a King´s gambit, but with black pieces, and that is supposed to be a delay black will recover with a lot of effort.
Increases the attack and prevents that nasty check in f3. BR in h8 is lost anyways.
Yep, Bf7+ would have lead to mate by 15.Qe6++, but black has already lost the game anyways, and did not think much about it. After a few more moves, black surrendered.<n>  The game illustrates how useful are those thematic positions learned throughout our games or study and how dangerous and king in the center is when not defended properly.<n>I still feel bad for my poor opening scheme, but it did pay off the suffering after W 10th movement.
47. .......... Be6 - after this move Bob waves the white flag.  This technique is reminiscent of the technique I used against a 1753 player in one of Jo's Successful Endgames annotated a few months ago.  Frere Leblanc controls the a2-g8 diagonal.  Whether white trades bishops or moves the bishop away, there is no stopping Glenda from making a reappearance two moves down the line and cleaning up the last two white pawns and turning her attention to the white king.  Hope you have had a good read!  Bye for now.  Joanne
Here is the end of the line of this thematic game.
With this move i am at the end of my opening knowledge.
According to " how analysis " it is important to have one move we like in the game. It is this one for me, mostly because it show that spending hours doingtactics exercices will give a cool feed-back....sometimes.
This is a game that I (bishop18) played when I was 14. What's interesting about it is that it looked as if I was getting attacked and in deep trouble for most of the game, but then I suddenly whipped up an attack out of nowhere to checkmate black.
I admit I didn't see this response. A good one it is, since it has a forced reply.
No choice.
Best reply is this one, but it blocks my bishop.
Uncovering the queen's defense.
I was outraged. How could I have missed such a simple tactic?
It's mate in 2; can you see it?
And finally, I save myself from a losing position.  I was shocked; I was losing for most of the game and most of the time I doubted I would draw, let alone win. <n><n>This game is an example of not giving up, attacking ruthlessly, and defending intelligently.
This is another practice game, in which I play the dubious Latvian Gambit and take some risks to open up an attack against a disorganized White position. The theme of this game is piece coordination and planning--Black has a very clear plan throughout the game, whereas White does not, and the differences in the solidity of their resulting midgame positions are substantial as a result. Enjoy!
For all the reasons I don't think White should decline the Gambit in such a passive way like this, see my Latvian Gambit series. 3.Nxe5, 3.Bc4, 3.exf5 or 3.d4 are all stronger for White, but this move crops up quite often, especially if White doesn't know the opening well. The problem is that it is simply too passive, and lets Black get virtually everything he wants--space and time. We know Black's game plan--what is White's? This move suggests he wants to play a more positional game, keeping some tension in the center rather than tearing into a kingside attack.
White needs to develop, not push pawns--this move seems intended to prevent ...Nb4 with a threat on d3, but it needlessly weakens b3 and more importantly does not contribute at all to White's development. A queenside pawn storm is not really feasible without pieces to support it. Black has been working steadily towards his goal: control the center and develop his pieces to active locations, while White's plans are unclear.
Black, with most of his development complete and his pieces occupying comfortable posts in and around the center, is clearly preparing to make his push through the center and kingside. White's pieces, on the other hand, have little in common except that they seem awfully cramped, and don't threaten much of anything. In other words, Black's pieces are coordinated and active, while White's are disorderly and passive. Black's midgame plans are clear--what are White's goals?
This is a good thought, threatening to push to c5 with check. White has a queenside majority, so seeking to activate it is a good line of thinking. The only problem with this particular move is that it blocks the b-pawn from advancing, and it somewhat marginalizes the WQ. A better post might have been c2.
?? The thought behind this move is sound--White wants to bring his Queen back to the action. However, a preemptive 20.g3 would be better, as this move gives Black enough time to really load on the pressure.
0-1. White cannot avoid devastating material loss after 23.Bxf3 Bxf3, where the WQ must give her life for the Bishop (if she leaves the d1-h5 diagonal, she no longer threatens to capture Black's Bishop and therefore nothing can prevent 24...Qh3 followed by 25...Qg2#). White's lack of clear midgame goals resulted in his forces being hopelessly disorganized, without even any real interference from Black. This is why it's so very important to have clearly thought-out goals from the very start of the game--know where you're going and what your plans are, and know how each move you make contributes to that plan. Thanks to chicoboy for the game, and thanks for reading!
Till now it seems almost a manual about the opening, the way I play it. <n>More often, my white-squared bishop is taken before the knight goes to e7, so the h7 pawn goes in g6. <n>Note that if I retake the bishop with the e7 knight, an inmediate d4-d5 is possible. I cannot say if it is really mortal, but I prefer not to find out in a live game. The opening of the h comumn for black proves decisive in the future, despite its innocent aspect right now.
I must admit I didn't see this "trick" after the B - N exchange. But I decided to make the best of it.
Why not Ng4? Anyway, I can imagine white thoughts: black has a discovered king, I have four pieces pointing at it... how can I be in danger? Just some move to take away this fly, and I'll will go for a win. But...<n><n>This move was a mistake. With the next one I go further on with my attack, and the queen gets away from the danger zone, while the king is fully in it.
Ok, so what? I am proud of the next move, I think it is kind of decisive. Of course, I calculate all possible variants, and I got a piece minimum. <n>Note that Rg4  is not a great move. Rd8-h8 looks great, but gives he the chance of d6. Then, I don't have an inmediate win. So the correct one is the following.
Is he aware of the danger?
This is game that i won and took 26 points...The whole game was quite strange for me...Write comments or rate the game if you want...
i played d4 but i regreted later...
He wanted an exchange but i didn't...
So at the end my attitude for a quick checkmate was proved though he would have saved it..
3.dxc6? is certainly a mistake, handing black a central pawn majority and a development advantage.
Providing backup for the b-pawn, but not oing much else. However, there is a devious trick that in turn, I missed...
Whoops! There goes my extra peice! I decided to try and make the most of a bad job. My next move was aiming to exchange on c3, then swap queens, in order to leave me with an extra pawn and far superior development.
I don't know why my opponent didn't take the bishop immediately - I calculated this to leave  me with not only extra material, but a far superior position.
g4 was overly ambitious I think. White needs several moves to loosen up the kingside and b4, qa5 is a real threat. White might have looked at nxb5 cxb5 e5, opening an attack on the rook while black is undeveloped. I don't think it would work though, as after nd7 exd6 rxd6 black can unpin and should be fine.
This marks game number 111 between my father and I. This simple typical thrust is the cornerstone to many of the games we play together.
This move stops cxd6 cxd6 Qc7, and prepares Rg7 to begin the attack.
The best defense.
Forcing the queen to move. But what options does the queen have well g7, f7, e8, and d7. None of which look all that appealing but I choice the one of the worst ones. Black is already lost here though.
? This move subjects Black to a withering attack.
Having manuevered the Q to support the N, this check is fatal.
And he lost on time.
A simple blitz showing a powerful attack.
My "time wasting favourite".
Black managed to let his dsb out, but it will have no action against solid white pawns.
Opening the way for the Q.
Understandable, but it just opens for me the g column.
I already have the check, but it is not enough to crush black, so I look for other ways.
Too much pressure and too uncordinated pieces, with a naked K. Mind: I'm -7.
I saw this line. It is not the first that came to mind, but it forces mate. The longer line is the following.
Good opening, This is one of the most opening's I use myself!
Black is playing to control up the center, this is the first move that does two things it gives the DSB a way out to attack and also the same for the Queen. Some players will play this opening to attack white and possibly get a quick check mate.
White is counter playing Black. It is not a move most players make. developing other minor pieces first would be the norm.
Black continues to play up the center, ignoring the Queen. Black has a plan of attack! White is making this easier for black to attack Queen side.
pawn takes pawn, Notice that White has only the queen out and black has yet to develop any pieces. Interesting game so far!
pawn takes pawn! This pawn is protected with the queen.
+Queen takes pawn check!
Black queen moves to f1 for the mate!    I made this annotation for John aka thefez. A very nice mate!  This was  done after a unrated game we played. It is important to not only play your attack, but to try to see the threats against you. If any one would like to make comments for this game, you are welcome to give your advice. It is welcomed.
At this stage I had confusion what is the best one and played 10...d6. After the game I analysed thru Chessmaster, it  gives 10. Qb6
A good Idea, wins a pawn but black can overcome from this attack
Battlefleet is a fan of Alekhine whereas I,m a follower of Capablanca.Like most positional orientated players I consider the Dutch opening as semi correct whereas warriors of the ilk of Alekhine Botvinnik and Korchnoi revel in the challenges it provides.
White makes good judgement as his dark long diagonal was very weak but now black has the full initiative
opening the f-file for a massive attack
Here black drew. However the continuation that follows offered him an excellent position against white
Hello Everyone, here's a game I played on ICC the other day, and I was pretty happy with the way the game went, and comments would be appreciated.
! maybe the best move I played in the game
In this game I was happy with my patient build up of an attack in a closed position. However I was looking for to an interesting ending when my opponent blundered. Enjoy.
!? I haven't faced this before
The first indication of what white is planning. Looking to start a K-Side pawn storm after O-O however I won't commit myself this early
I played this to remove the queen from defence of h5
lol let him attempt fork watch this
A standard opening. Me as black. This was a must win game for me to stay in the tournement so I put in a huge amount of thinking time
The horse takes his place again.
4 main pieces on the back line, woot!
a few pawn moves and I put some pressure on whites passed pawn.
This sequence is good for me, and wins me another point. I know white is hoping i take the pawn, leaving him open to the fork. I also know he has not sen my counter as it is a couple of moves long.
which he does.<n><n>White times out. Then re instates. I a comfortable with this position. I am particularly proud of this game. I may not have made the best moves, but I did not leave myself vunerable anywhere, assuring my house was in good order before I attacked.
White takes the black queen with Nc4+ (discovered check with the rook).
now we are ... <n>the white seems to have a good strong and dominant position, <n>let's break it !
so preparing defense
i don't even know what the name of this opening is but i saw someone play it so i decided to try it!!
well my opponent either got tired of attacking or realized how pathetic/predictable his future attacks were going to be and resigned!! what did we learn from this? is that you can't win a game if you can't defend! lol!! but the thing i will remember about this game is that my opponent is rated 1800+ but yet he played so poorly!!
Bird's opening, Lasker variation, this was the second game with a Bird's opening I play at the same time, now with white pieces, probably my opponents tried to confuse me, although it was my opponent in the other game that chose to play the Bird's against me...
black is a bit cramped and my last piece is developed with an attack to d5
now with a material advantage (piece and a pawn), the strategy has changed, and I'll focus my attack on the castled king
Hi everyone!<n><n>This opening is the Meadow Hay Opening and it comes from Easy19's suggestion that I create a themed MT out of this opening.  I ended up playing against a very strong expert in this MT and I seemed to be doing OK.  But then my opponent conjured up Old Matey out of nowhere.  I could have avoided copping this mate but only at the cost of ruinous loss of material.  So, how did this happen?  Firstly I will begin commentary with black's move on Move 4 because that is where the fixed moves end.  The database has completely run out so each player is on their own.
11. Nd2 - my development is nearly complete but black has a big spatial edge.  What an impressive wall of black pawns on the 5th rank!
16. Rg1 - it seemed such a good idea at the time - line up rook on same file as enemy queen.  Black showed me that this is not always the case!
23. ..... Rxe3!! a brilliant exchange sac!
24. .... Qxh2+!!! - followed by a brilliant queen sacrifice.  Mate cannot be avoided.  Next move I am 9 points up in material but down a king! Sigh and double Sigh!  Not the usual Philidor's Legacy!  Never mind, I did have the consolation over the weekend by managing to add to my tally of Expert Draws with my secret weapon, Operation Joblock.  I will be annotating this game this week so watch this space!
I have a better central Pawn and more advanced pieces: Black's compensation is a material advantage of one Pawn.
Naturally, Black wants to exchange pieces to blunt my attack.
The Black Rook is an "overburdened piece."
Nothing too special so far, though I should mention that my opponent took a rather long time before making these moves which should be openingpreparation. Maybe he was trying to figure out what the specifics of the e6 Sicilians are as they're played less often. In contrast I play rather quickly, trying to gain a small time edge while I still can as I knew my opponent is a long thinker.
Not the main line, but an understandable choice. That being said, the dark squares of Black's position are usually very weak and in the e6 Sicilians a common theme for White is to take advantage of that. I can't say that this move accomplishes this. He doesn't have to be afraid of Nxd4 either since it was protected by his queen. Nc3 would have been played had we followed the main lines.
Slightly confusing my opponent. This particular opening is called the Taimanov variation of the Sicilian defense and sadly not a lot of Sicilian players play it as they tend to favor either d6 variations of the Sicilian or play the Khan Sicilian. The Taimanov and the Khan share very similar ideas, but the queen on c7 can sometimes become a weakness rather then an asset after Nb5. It's pointless to play this now as after 6. Nb5 Qb8 7. Nc3 a6 8. Nd4 black is fine and it can even be said to be a better position. The queen on c7 controls the b8-h2 diagonal and indirectly glares at the c-pawn on c2. Often the queen comes in handy for a minority attack on the queenside or we use both the a8-h1 diagonal and the b8-h2 diagonal to exert enormous pressure on his castled king. Of course if you've never played against the Taimanov then this is tricky to understand without losing too much time.
After a long think he opts to trade. Apparently he has confidence in his ability to force something here. A lot of trading ensues. We both have about 10-15ish minutes left on the clock.
The position seems great for black now, although that's just how it looks since White has a rather cheeky move here.
Making it pretty impossible for him not to trade. There are also ideas of Qxd3 if he allows it so he's better of trading.
Offering a trade to try and speed this up.
Hi all again. This game shows how not to play Alekhine defence. I'm not good in it but my opponent makes some mistakes which help me to beat him for 10 moves only
Black did many mistakes in this game.
2....d5. The French Defense, Reversed Philidor Variation. I'm not to familiar with this line, but I don't think that I like it.
5.Ng5. Ahh, so that's what he was getting at. No, White should develop instead of attacking. Two pieces is hardly a battle-ready force.
8....Bxg5?? This miscalculation allows Black to win a minor piece.
24.Qxa7. I thought this was the end of what his Queen would do. How wrong I was.
28.Qh8#<n><n>My opponent played well in this game, and I played terribly. I overlooked, miscalculated, blundered, and overall failed in the middle-late game. <n><n>Thank you for reading! Please leave comments!
Mini-tournament, I'm playing white and start with the Open Game, my favorite first move.
The Queen's Fianchetto Defense. I haven't seen this one before.
2. ... Bb7 is the main line. Instead, black abandons the main line to play toward the Owen's Defense. If white plays 3. Nc3 we reach the Owen's Defense (more common from a side line of the French Defense with 1. e4 e6, 2. d4 b6, 3 Nc3). Owen's Defense is considered by most to be fairly inferior, allowing white to establish and hold a superior center while black falls behind in development. According to Wiki, it's greatest use is surprising opponents who aren't prepared for it, which may be great in a tournament hall, but not so great in online or correspondence chess where books and other references are allowed. However, white deviates with a different line, preparing to castle kingside earlier than would be possible after 3. Nc3.
I give myself 3 question marks for this idiotic move, even if it only deserves one. Here's how it happened. I'm juggling 25 games or so, I've never seen this opening, and I'm relying on the GK DB to guide me through the first moves so I don't screw them up while I spend much more time on a dozen other games that are all demanding moves. The DB said 4. Bd3. I looked in the DB, came back to the game and played 4. Be3?. I don't know why. I guess too much hurry and not enough attention, and zero analysis of what the move actually looked like. So yeah, white loses a pawn here, for nothing. Because I'm an idiot.
Damage is done, it's time for damage control. Develop with a tempo. Let's call 4. Be3! a subtle gambit. Very subtle.
17. ... Nxg4 is a scary choice for black. It positions the white pieces perfectly to kill the pawn on h6. Well, almost perfectly.
It's decision time for black here. White is up a lot of material, having two bishops in exchange for only two pawns. Black should be cautious of any material exchanges. On the other hand, with a 4-2 kingside pawn advantage, especially with white's broken pawn structure, black could do a lot of damage without all the big pieces. But white has a hidden attack here, so black's best option is to draw the queen back to safety. Not so much safety for the queen, but for the black king.
Instead black took the easy pawn and now it's all over for black. 27. ... Qxc3 lets him live a few extra moves.
I cannot see any reason against Bd4, and I am VERY cramped. Fortunately, he played...
So I have two isolated pawns, not easily defendable... what a mess! :-(
My rook move was a blunder, since now white has time to stop the pawn with a rook. Still, Nf4 would have been a win for black. But he played, with few seconds left...
End of checks and the game, one I deserved to lose but... it was funny to walk over the edge all the time just to see the king walk all over the board... to win. A last note: when you play RTC (real time chess), don't trust ratings such as "500" or so... they are normally not "true".
RxN+!! Suddenly Black's K is in real trouble. If ...RXN, Re8#.
And this.
Pretty standard development.
When playing the computer I always try to force the issue.
On this move I spent a long time. I thought about Nf5, Bxf5 and Qxf5 threatening Qc8+ but didn't think it led anywhere. I thought about 0-0-0 and chickened out. I think my decision in the position just came back to the strategy of forcing moves against the computer. I noticed c5 weakened the h1-a8 diagonal and I had hazy, distant plans of g3 and Bg2 and Bf4. At the time this seemed very active, it centralised my queen and gave me options on the kingside.
One free move for black. I did know about this before I played Ne4. But I thought that a loss of tempo for a strong initiative (my next move) and greater development (black is lagging) was an OK trade for this stage of the game.
I must admit I didn't expect the computer to take here. Opening the d file for my rook, allowing pressure against c5. I did hope for this when I played e3 and now I felt that I can get a dominating position quite quickly. However, as often in chess you think 'Yes, this position is just great, he has no moves to play against me to challenge my immediate plans,' and out comes lightening from a clear blue sky!
But no. What is this? I think this utterly pointless excursion lulled me into complacency. My next move is a clear oversight which blows the advantage I currently perceived myself having.
I hate this move. First of all I considered 0-0 which would have been grand, why did I not just castle? But now once again I have given the computer a free developing move with the consequence  that I lost lots of time on my 20th move. I surprised myself with the amount of disgust I felt when reflecting on this decision after the computers next move.. because after all, this was my masterplan... was it not?
Throwing away a win. My worst move (bar blunders) for a significant amount of time. I am going to be a liar and blame it on time pressure.. It was time pressure that forced my hand.
So this was an only move. Now, for the third time in the game, I took a break. I was pleased that I had got the black king to weaken itself and I spent a relatively long time thinking how to exploit it. I thought that what I did next was a nice try for a win.
I thought that this was getting a little too complicated for me now. I wanted black to take the bishop off because Qxf5 apparently wins a pawn, but I just could not calculate or assess the position after black played Qf6. For two reasons.  1. The line ...Bxd5, Qxf5 Qf6, Qxf6 Kxf6, exd5. <--- This pawn is falling and I have a lost endgame. 2. If I DON'T take off the black queen he has (from f6) Qa1+ and Qxa3, which annoyingly defends a7. I saw nothing more than a draw here by perpetual.  So the only way for me to achieve my 'winning endgame' (I actually think I blundered severely later and was lucky that the computer didn't play the winning move) was to aim for a big pawn centre.
And now I have my passed pawn. Something to work with in the ending.
Probably so the computer can play the following devious move without having to defend f4 after I go Kf3. This is a very sneaky preparatory move. And I think I missed the idea just as much as the computer did! I think this is a perfect example of how humans think differently than machines. We see plans based on what has come before. Computers dont have plans, they just crunch numbers and bang out the best move, objectively speaking, every time.
I think this move, or more generally this idea, should have lost me the game. It is still hard to see why, but I suspect that my king cannot venture too far up the board due to the huge potential for black on the queenside. If I had had one hour in this position I would have most probably played 38. a4.
!! In my opinion the best move of the game, and one which I just cannot calculate. The threat is ...c4, and I just didn't see whether I can continue to meander my king through light squares to support my own pawn promotion, or if I should be on guard duty for the rest of the game. It is one of those things. Black never HAS to play c4, without it my king cannot get to d4 and help in dissolving the threat. It is simply a very dangerous reserve waiting on the sideline. And if my king runs too far then the black pawns will be too quick to catch.  In truth, I had no idea what to do here. And at such a critical juncture I had only seconds left. For 2 more moves. In short, I decided to go for it. And I do believe that 40. Kf5 is losing to 40...c4. Who else thinks these pawn endings are the hardest part of chess?
? I now allowed myself another 30 minutes. And it seems that this move is a case of awful timing from the computer. Why not play this on the last move and threaten a4? Why wait now to play c4? At a greater depth I suspect c4 would be played. Its such a pressing issue. I actually felt a tinge of anti-climatic disappointment that I wasn't utterly blown away in this endgame. This pathetic move actually hands me victory. And an easy one thankfully!
Any decent player would resign here, but not this computer. No, it must be mated. And it still takes the same amount of time to do it.
The time approaches.
The pin on my N is restored, and it is a real... (censored). I don't find the right moment for h6-g5 (a dubious manouver).
The quiet move must have a cost for my opponent. In this case, the opening of the a coumn, with my Be6 threatening a2... the downside of not having played g5.
Ok but now this has less poison in it.
! Amazing, another R aligning I oversaw! This time, my opponent puts me in a trouble, since after f3, my B must move and e5 will fall. But moreover: Nf7+ here takes e5 anyway for free... and again, we didn't see it! This is the pity of blitzes...
This way, if black takes g2, it is not a check.
This move threats back rank mate with Ra1#, and the other R shields any possibility of BxRa1. With the addition of a black pawn in f7 and a white pawn in h4, the position qualified as a puzzle (for once!) and it is now a puzzle. In the game, white has just one move to do:
This is a return game against heart-bleeads, I lost the first game, now with white. I have to admit there is no opening I know better than the absolute standard one, so here it goes.
You cannot defend two knights with one move, right?
Ok, I can definitely see an end game here, so I have to look at the pawns again, especially since I'm two short. But mine are already half way, so maybe it'll all work out.
Uuuuh, will he see this?
But now I'll feast, too.
This was the big mistake. Why he opened the diagonal up for my bishop while at the same time blocking his pawn, I'll never know. But thanks.
It's getting closer...
Just in time. Now it's easy.
I'll just grab these two, ok?
Now the path is clear and it's just a matter of time.
Right it is.
I'll take my time.
This is  the Winawer, advanced variation.
White is down a pawn, but he has the advantage.
The Richter-Rouzer variation. Rather unlike the Sozin which is an opportunistic positional treatment creating steady pressure against Black's center, the Richter-Rouzer aims to conjure up a tactics-based attack on Black's K-side. In the Sozin White castles K-side; in the R-R he castles long and plays to cram his K-side pawns down Black's throat.
So far, so book.
!? This continuation has been around for a long time, but I seldom see it played at GM levels anymore, and only very rarely at the level of chess most of us mortals play on. Must be a "fashion" thing. Regardless, the move aims to create a hole at e5 for a Black Knight, a post that lays groundwork for a Black counterattack striking from the center and up the half-open c-file.
Black has lost his peachy Knight at e5 but White, in capturing it, has been thrown on the defensive and it is now Black who's attacking. Notice a common theme in this sharp continuation, following ...g5 Black often has no time to castle: his game often balances on that gain of a single tempo. The second player must have good nerves to choose to leave his King in the center.
Even though everybody has passed pawns, White resigned.
I have castled my King into a relatively safe spot. White has regained the gambit Pawn and has a spatial advantage but is slightly behind in development.
The only real choice.
So on move 18 dxc5, here at first I was shocked to find 22 h4 for white. The black queen cannot stay on the diagonal to d8, which would make Nxc7 winning.<n>22 h4 Qg2!? 23 Rf1! and there is simply nothing black is threatening or can do against Nxc7. <n><n>Then I found Qf5! and the mate threat stops and immediate Nxc7, giving black enough time and a decent position. So I went for this variation after all happily
But I missed this one, white should be winning here, black can still put up a fight by sacrificing a piece for some pawns but it should be enough.<n>I had a good long think here and played e3 because I think white has only one really good reply and possibly the others aren't that good, getting black back in the game. So its at least giving white a tough choice in this complicated position
Black has to act otherwise Nxc7 is game over
I think a mistake, not sure if its losing, wild position, but the follow up seems pretty convincing.<n><n>23 Nxe3! is I think the strongest move for white.<n>It should continue 23 Nxe3 Qxe7 24 bxa6 Rxa6 or something, with pawns and open king for the piece and the exchange
It's always a cool move to put x-rays on the higher valued piece.  Why is it an x-ray?  Well...this is not direct pressure.  And if White is not paying attention the threat is invisible just like radiation.  Later the effect can be fatal however....
Flawed because the capturing pawn's threat to the Queen allows White to cover the loose piece before Black can pick it up with ...Rxc3.  Those brave little pawns!  And remember John Nunn's famous LPDO mnemic device (Loose Pieces Drop Off).  Fortunately the piece is not really loose.  Maybe this is what my opponent missed when he started the faulty combination beginning with 22...d5?  All I can say is "Been there and done that many times while playing correspondence chess."
Mate threat restored since Black opened the position for me. My opponent resigned here as he is down a lot of material after the unfortunate combination, but he could have played on for some time after 25...Qg8.  White's options then include 26.Bc4 and 26.Bxe5.  Black might try 26...Rc6 after the latter.  Alternatively 25...Qc5+ renews the threat to win the c3 Bishop, but after 26.Kh1 Black can not stop the mate in one.  Basically averting mate will leave a lost ending of pawns against pawns and two Bishops.  An interesting game.  White was never really better.  Black made a mistake late and White was opportunistic however.
Development is complete for both sides. Now the middle game begins.
I offer to swap the final pieces.
In Rook endings it's important do stay mobile and attack. I now threaten RxP and the slaughter of the Black Q side Pawns.
I can now force a passed pawn with P-N5 at any time.
Now the Pawn will tie down Black's K while my own heads for the Q side to much Pawns.
Black is in zugzwang.
normal opening
he is weak in development so the queen might be useful
it is hanging
more pieces... for me!
not  best choice
two pawns for a queen
only choice
very strong black center and black is two pawns up
Better was for black to play RxR. He would have been in good position to win the game  with two pawns up
-and it worked.....
-till this happened
I rarely ever see the Petroff, and I don't really know what to do against it.
Opening it up for the bishops.  Capturing towards the center is also logical, but I wanted fast development.
I'll try for the win.
Black is lost.
[%clk 0:05:08] ...and see what happens? Unfortunately I don't know theory, and I bet this must be bad. But let's see why...
[%clk 0:04:53] e6's weakness is not easily exploitable, and I lost my good center, opening the way to B dsb. A serious mistake.
[%clk 0:03:07] This blocks black's predictable kicking of my B.
[%clk 0:04:10] Ah, why? Let's see:
[%clk 0:02:20] Snatched another one, and... look into the position: the black N has it very, very hard to "bypass" white's R guard: can you see? My h pawn will win the game without any effort. I saved the game mainly to remember this particular R / N asset. For black it is virtually impossible to reach g6 or c7. The rest of the game is of no interest.
Rxb6? Nd5+ wins.  Of course, Black played carefully and didn't fall for any cheapos.
A queen opening. I choose to match white in the middle of the board and see how the opening progresses.
I choose defense
BUt white does not, instead, white gives me an opening.
this is interesting, now white has to make a small decision - a knight for a queen, I think not...
finally white is getting the picture. But this retreat locks the king in for me and makes my life easier.
This game is one I played on a site similar to GameKnot.  It was in the second to last round of a tournament and I needed to win or draw in order to avoid elimination.
The game solidifies into the Wing Attack, which slightly favors white if played accurately
Mostly waiting for black to commit while restricting black's potential for king side expansion
This appears to be a good move as it opens up the black bishop with a tempo on the queen but...
He played this opening both times.  The first time, I did some sort of classical response, with pawns on d4 and e4.  This time, I decided to try something a little more hypermodern.
My rook is now active, but I have to be wary bringing it out this early in the game.
Expecting 17...Nxa4, I can fork the rook and his knight with 18.Nxc6 dxc6 19.Qxc6 Qxc6 20. Bxc6 Rac8 Bxa4.  That will make up for at least 3 of the 5 points I lost.  The pawn I win with the queen will make that 4 of the 5 points.
And he resigned, he only had 20 seconds left on his clock anyway.
The most played move, but gameknot analyzer considers this as 'inaccuracy' and suggests Qd6 instead.
I expected this move somehow. now my knight is pinned too, if I move it away, black can simply play Qxa4. This position made me think a very long time, I probably have spent 1 hour trying out a lot of different possible next moves...
?!. And still, none of pieces were captured. I understand that black wanted to bring in more pieces and that he wanted to bring his king in safety. Of course I was threatening something like Nxf6+ for winning the queen, but I was actually expecting either Qxc6, dxe4 or probably Bxe1. <n>At this position I started to realize I really seem to have an advantage... but still I didn't see a clear path to a fast win... I just felt this position has a lot of potential, and I started to think very long about my next move again...
I simply accepted the exchange because I was +5 in material... each exchanged pieces makes the win easier in such a position, I think
And black resigned
It will be interesting to see how Black deals with pressure on this Knight.
Getting the second Priest out of my way. But I don't have a role for him in this game.
Doubling my Pawns, Black is so predictable!
Perhaps the only choice? But it takes the Knight out of the fight. A Knight on the rim is grim.
Will Black offer a exchange of Queens?
The d-Pawn suffers for this!
Trying to get compensation for the lost material, but it allows me to break up my Doubled-Pawns along the f-File.
A decision to attack aggressively almost cost me in this game. I have chosen the f7 Square to focus my power, and Black chooses f1.
An obvious choice for me!
Of course we'll exchange! I have more Pawns!
Combinational Chess Theory. I don't see a way for Black to win. I can kill off Pawns on either side of the Board with my King, while promoting to Queen before Joseph.
What a game!
Again with the king's pawn game. This is my first choice opening as black, as my queen and kingside bishop both have freedom.
This move looks good, but I have a tactical response.
i didn't hurry to exchange the queens right away , it was better for me to maneuver the knight to d6 (Nd2-c4-d6)and get very powerful position for my knight . and if 22...Qxb4-cxb4 and i have good pawn structure on my queen side , and leaving d4 pawn doesn't badder me because of the maneuver of my knight to d6 , as i earlier mentioned . if black wont tack the queen exchange offer and play 22...Qc7 , my queen will be in very strong position , controling the dark squarese diagonal a3-f8 and the B file and after 23.Nc4-Rfb8.24.Qa3! with very good position .
good move , after i reached my king to be close enough to stop blacks pawns . the idea of .49.Rd4 is after.50. Nxc2- dxc2.51.Rxc4, and black cannot defend  longer his pawns , there for  he has nothing to do but to resign . black resigns . thank you i hope you enjoy my game .
A "Walking the Walk" club game.  A notable aspect of this game is that black's king moved a total of ONE time the entire game.  Up until move 36 (the point at which white would have resigned in a non-club game), white's king moved 7 times.  That contrast along with a few other time-wasting and questionable moves by white played a large part in the game.  Black slowly developed a stronger position and then gained the initiative, probably over the course of moves 12 to to 20, with white's move 16 perhaps being the turning point.
Having never played against a Caro-Kann defense, I am immediately in foreign territory.
An interesting but strange opening.
a standard move suggested by the game database.  very non-intuitive for me.  tried for some time to understand the value of the move.  Other than the influence on black's lsb, it will also hinder black's pawns and therefore limit space.  a potential support post and can also attack. comments?
this kingside pawn fortress holds unchanged to the very end of the game.
lost time from 12.
chompp!  played on, per club "rulez."
white resigns.  probably the best of my four WTW games.  fewer major blunders. plenty of smaller mistakes though.  The personality of the game - castling opposite and white's king safety issues - contributed to black's win.  Between move 11 (when white castled) and move 36 (when white lost his queen), the white king moved 6 times, ...good initiative for black and little opportunity to improve position for white.  these checks/king moves began at move 24.  I expect I will be taking a close look at moves 12 to 23.<n><n>as for where I went wrong, 12. Bc3 wasted two moves.  16. Qxb7 is questionable but probably not bad on its own (otoh, perhaps time could have been better spent on engineering an attack).  19. Re4 also probably not bad on its own.  25. Ke2 perhaps a waste of time.  26. Bxb4, hmm. prevents loss of c-pawn but loses bishop, reducing attacking options.  28. Bxa4.  perhaps should have made queen safe and let N deal with black's a-pawn.  29. Re1 a wasted move.  Also, from 22 to 25 (and even 19 to 22), white is somewhat well positioned to initiate an attack.  perhaps not proceeding was another mistake.  will have to see how these comments line up with what the computer has to say.<n><n>Thanks very much to hityerclock for the game.<n><n>will look forward to hearing any comments.
The Q is alrea dy lost so Qg3 invites the exchange of your now useless Q for the principal piece in my attack.
Hi everyone!<n><n>GM Cyrano kindly invited me to a MT of his called Italian Coffee.  I am one of 4 players rated south of 2000 in this 11 player MT and two of those were Class A 1900+ players.  This is one of them.  I find myself in a KGA and I end up losing a piece for two pawns very early on in the game.  I managed to get a third pawn for a piece but alas, that proved to be insufficent in the endgame and Yours Truly had to take a 7 point rating hit, preventing me from getting my rating north of 1860.  How did this happen?  Well, here is the GA version of the game which you can follow.  http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=16652944&fb=1&rnd=0.6964235451517038
2. .... exf4 - this is the King's Gambit Accepted.  I usually accept the offering because a pawn is a pawn.
5. .... Nc6 - development.
31. ..... Kg7?? - I think this is where I sould have played h4.  White stops this with g4 next move and ensures that both my h and f pawns become backward.
Doubling the pawns on h-file was essential to the outcome of the game.
I would of gone for trade offs, eg 7.Ne4-Nxe4 8.dxe4-Bxe4 9.O-O-Qd6 10.Re1-Bg6 with equality.
time to have dissension in Paul's ranks, his pawn structure here is compromised.
A thorn in whites side.
More normal is Bg7 here, taking us into the main line of the Austrian attack.  But this is playable, too, opening the a5-d8 diagonal for the queen.
Perfectly consistent.  But is this a good setup for black?
Hey!  Look at that; we are back in the game DB, apparently this is an uncommon line in the Pirc, Austrian Attack with 6. Bd3.  And this is a great setup for me; I'm really happy with how this has turned out.<n><n>I have the two bishops, I have a monster center, I have the beginnings of a kingside pawn storm, and once I play 0-0-0, my development will be completed.  Black is playing catch-up the rest of the way.
?!  It's hard to argue with this move too much, but white is controlling the entire flow of the game now, and black needs to do something to reduce white's edge; I prefer exf4 here.
Counterplay on the opposite side of the board is an excellent idea.  But I will not be distracted, especially since black's pieces are out of position to support this push (and if b4, Ne2 or even Nb1 is fine).
Undoing black's fianchetto.
Some think the spectre of Nc5 is my reason for this move; in reality, I want to attack the h5 square.  The game has been pretty straightforward for me so far.
Who does this help?  If Bxe3, Qxe3 allows me to attack h5, which is what I wanted in the first place.
Ooh.  When I saw this I realized that this is black's only way to defend against mate on h7!
This is my first material edge of the game except for my half-move one-point advantage on move 11.
Black gets checkmated.<n><n>Thanks to vdatsuk for a great game!
Hi everyone!<n><n>Ding-a-ling!  It's round 2 for the two heavyweights above.  This time Freddy has the black pieces and we get another Sicilian Naijdorf.  This game does, have a happy ending for him.  He gets a High Draw.
5. ...... a6 - here is the Naijdorf - please see my note to the other Freddy game against Master Albertwall.
24. axb4 - this queen trade results in Freddy losing a pawn.  To compensate there is a doubleton on the queenside and white has two isolanis on the kingside.
35. Kf2 - this move allows an interesting minor piece trade.  The trade results in a trippleton on the b file.
Sicilian defense is really my weak defense so i decided to try it for once. Usualy i would use the French, Pirc, Modern or Caro-Kann defense.
Why exchange when losng?
Good counterplay.  This move gives White a potential post for a knight in my territory and allows him to undouble his pawns on the c file.  Top play for White.
I didn't expect this move and am not certain what White is hoping to accomplish.  I would have traded knight for bishop with Nxe6 instead.  However, now that White is allowing me to get rid of one of his two power pieces on my half of the board, I must partake.  If you allow an opponent to have power pieces on your side of the board for a while, they become liabilities quickly.  Don't let them get established and drive them away or trade if it's not disadvantageous.
to protect against Qxh7#.  I didn't consider Qxd3, which I should have played instead, as it would have netted me another pawn, but you can't make the top play every time, otherwise the game wouldn't be any fun.
White declines the trade.  I would have considered moving to h3 instead to keep the potential for using my rooks to harass the Black queen, but keeping a protective line on the rook at d1 is a good idea too.  A key facet of higher level play is to try and have your pieces work in harmony together.  Let them mutually support and defend each other so that you don't leave pieces exposed to themselves and vulnerable to pins/attacks.
Time to get a little aggressive and see how far I can drive this advantage.
This game was really close for a while, but a few key mistakes let it slip away.  Black was able to capitalize on a back-door mate threat to ram a pawn down the center for promotion.  Thanks for your comments/review.
A rather rare sideline but it does have a few points to it. I actually play it myself on occasion. The purpose of this idea is to save a move in normal lines, namely Be7. It can lead to quite a few sharp lines but it can be positional as well. Kasparov used this line on a number of occasions. Trying to play Nbd7, preserving the pawn structure, allows White to play Bc4, so it's generally accepted that this is the more exact move.
I'm getting ready to castle long and start an attack on the K-side. A typical Sicilian position.
This pattern of developing pieces, including the pawn structure and the piece placement is seen in many lines and is very elastic since many plans are available to Black.
Releasing the central pressure in order to focus the pieces on a K-side attack. It's very interesting the developing the Bishop to d7 makes the capture with the b-pawn less desirable.
A common trick in the Sicilian but it doesn't work so well here.
With no nasty check. If you've played the White side of the Sicilian you'll learn that moves like Kh1 and Kb1 aren't a waste of time at all.
This was the position I was aiming for. Material wise, things are even, but I think I have a solid positional edge. My pawn structure is very good, I have a good blockade point on d5, Black's King can come under a form of attack if Queens are on the board, plus the d6 pawn is weak. Black's trumps are his Bishop which has a lot of open space to roam but nothing to bite at, his command of the f-file and the central spot e5 for his Bishop.
There is a saying in chess and it's very true, the threat is more dangerous than the execution. I'm sure you've seen many GM games where they would delay executing a basic recapture almost to the point it wasn't possible anymore. This is done for a good reason. If you have a threat and your opponent can't do anything about it, don't rush. Taunt him. It's very infuriating and difficult to play from a psychological point of view. You're expecting your opponent to execute his threat but he doesn't. You begin to wonder why he doesn't. Maybe you calculate everything again, believing you have compensation. You can't find any. Then you look at the move he just made. It doesn't threaten anything. So you decide to remove the threat, seeing as your opponent has given you an unexpected breather. Then you make the fatal blunder and see what it was that your opponent was really threatening.
Having won a pawn, it's time I activate my King.
Creating a runner on the edge of the board. In case of 46...Kb6 then 47. Nxd5+ with a very simple win.
The arising endgame is good for black, so maybe was not the right time to trade queens.
But black misses it! After 24. ... f6 25. Re2 e5 26. Nf3 Bc6 black dominates the d-file, has an intact pawn structure, and a strong bishop.
Now the game is still drawn. If black move the f pawn, it loses the g pawn and the game. So white must only have threaten the g pawn...
As far as I've heard, this is the Modern Archangel Defense. It is a lagged Berlin, but it is still sound- for the most part.
My goal for the game was to start an attack first. Sadly my plan collapsed later on in the game.
My opponent was not expecting d5, so my opponent thought for a long time to make this move. The point was to refute my pawn push by making one of his own and attacking a bishop.
I didn't want queens in the game. I also needed this for my next move.
I need to trade before my pieces are lost!
We both had very low time on the clock, and only six more moves until the extra hour. I couldn't think of a good defending move, as mine lost a pawn.
Progressing a passed pawn.
At this point, the game was agreed a draw. White will have a very difficult time advancing his pawns.
just trying to get pieces developed quickly as I felt backward in development .
the light squared bishop is doomed..I blocked its escape when I played Qd7<n>.. It is o.k however I think ! as it did not have many squares !<n>Opposite coloured bishops ..often give the weaker side chances of obtaining draw in end game
This offers black great chances
To avoid the Ruy Lopez, which she always seemed to win quickly with against me. This time it didn't help.
I try to develop my pieces quickly.
I was actually glad she didn't reply QxP. Any time her Queen came out, I knew I was in for it.
What choice do I have?
Anand's choice of the Slav Defence is no surprise - it is his main weapon as Black for many years.
Well, that is a surprise. The drawing tendency of the Exchange line makes it less preferable at top level, as it minimizes the chances to make good use of the White pieces.
This is popular choice but the Indian's first task is to neutralize the opening pressure - drawing as Black is a good thing in match fight
The only reasonable attempt to try for some advantage in this position.
Draw agreed. Kramnik played cautiously this game - or maybe had something prepared in the 6...a6 line - and didn't pose any real problems to Anand, so the game logically concluded in a draw as could be predicted by move 16.
A rematch from deanfromblue. I won our first game as white so he offered me the black pieces this time. I'm something of a fan of the Indian System, so I thought I would go for it this time.
This is sort of a Gruenfeld Defense, though white's 3rd move wasn't really the main line.
For annotations for this first part (which I won't annotate in this annotation), see gameknot.com/annotation.pl/chess-game-part-1?gm=50218.
He probably overlooked this, but he is dead lost.
This is MY favourite asset with white pieces (but for the B)... and I use to win with it!
Fortunately, my opponent is more focused in castling than in attacking. I don't know if he's right, but I would have gone for attack.
Again, my opponent is more focused in developing than in exploit my weaknesses. This is a good move, of course, but it is not aiming at my "mistakes".
I'm a pawn under, but white has no more advantage that the good B, which can be managed by me in two easy moves. If white does not creates interferences with his Q. I have nothing on h4+, and if I want to recover the pawn I'll have to play aggresively. The white Q is too dangerous, for example on g4, to be allowed.
I have to do this, working for the activation of my lsb and not simply exchanging for him. I'm still a pawn down, I have to prove it's a draw. And fair exchanges don't favour me, while pawn's do.
Black resigned.
With idldice81's permission I'm annotating this game for the benefit of our team, the Burninators.
This opening is known as Petrov's Defence (C42).
This is now the classical attack variant, all moves according to book.
Book, and for those chess monkeys, it's called the Marshall variation.
This was perhaps not my strongest play, but I wanted to put some pressure on white's knight and see what shook loose.  I also didn't want to give white the chance to shift another pawn to his center, giving him a stronger center advantage.  My d pawn is weak and isolated, but if it is, I'd rather his was too.<n><n>If white takes Nxd5, Bxh2+ regains parity.
No other choice.
I prefer this move to Qc7 as it continues development, but also puts some added pressure on his d pawn, and maybe something good can happen.  So far white is playing superb.
I believe that this exchange is a bit premature, as you need to have pieces in order to mount an effective attack, however, it does break up my queenside pawns and they are now isolated, so in and of itself, that's not a bad thing.  Pawns are more valuable when they are connected, and isolated they are weak.
I was holding my breath, hoping that he would take with 17 Qxd5.  He didn't make that move, but this one is not so good either.  It does connect his rooks, which is always a plus in development, but it doesn't add much attack value with where he placed it.   More damning, however, it will also cost him his knight for free.  If he re-takes, very bad things happen.<n><n>The better move here for white would have been to put the knight on g5 followed up by Rd1, breaking my chance to exchange with the knight and earning a bishop for the pawn I took on d5. (thanks kingcruel)
19. Kxh2 Qxd3 and white is down 6 points (5 after 20. Bxc5), but not a place you want to be with a questionable pawn structure.  In a game against equal players, most resign here, and white chose the path of least resistance.
This is a game that i won...
So i'm protecting my queen and my bishop is lost...
The queen's pawn game. My second choice opening as black, as my queen only has partial freedom, while her bishop has more freedom (the c8-h3 diagonal, the latter being a no-go).
I think this was a reasonable exchange for me: I'm a pawn up, the queens are off the board, but my extra pawn is quite well advanced and unsupported, despite it being passed. So it will need some cover, especially that the c-file is now open...
I may have lost a pawn from this exchange, but the rook is on the same file as the king...
...and my king can now ensure it is possible. My opponent resigned here as 41. Ke1 e2 42. Kf2 Kd2 43. any e1=Q or 41. Kc1 e2 42. Kb1/b2 e1=Q, and I could go in for four queens to really rub it in.
he takes it, fasten yr seatbelts for here we go
now i think this is the best defense for black, getting his queen out.what do you think?
Beauty of Kings gambit- attack shifts direction. He takes my knight I take his bishop and check him
he counter attacks, but I have it worked out- I think, I hope. This is chess for adrenalin junkies. What would you do??
lost your queen mate. He resigns. Kings gambit - always unpredictable. 11- Q c7 was the key move.  Pl comment and rate freely. This is chess for fun, hope you enjoyed
This felt premature, but I liked the symmetry.
Take. My pawns look silly. I've not seen this before, but reminds me of a split when bowling.
I push the a pawn to perhaps weaken the central pawns and then attack them, but I did think if it failed I run the risk of opening up the queen side for an attack <n><n>(***spoiler alert***) Which is exactly what happened!
Queen side is wide open.
Done. <n><n>Thanks for the game Freddy. Not sure how you always get me to deviate from my opening plan. Next time I will remember!
I choose Danish gambit game.
Normal development.
...now she is in very good place - for me ;)
And it's over :). Nice game (for me), and if you see, my Queen side is totally undeveloped. Have a nice day.
This game comes from King Inidan Defense mini-tournament
The c5 break! It is a gambit, if you will. I play 6...c5 against the Saemisch 100% of the time.
queen side attack
Now my pieces are cramp
!! a passed pawn
The hand is quicker than the mind. This move exposes Black to a potential Q-R5.
I've always played at my best with e4. In serious play, I've yet to deviate from this. His preferred opening with White was a variation normally seen in Queen's Gambit Declined, where White plays d4, supports with e3, and then after playing c4, would push for c5 and immediately support with b4. I rarely encounter these games when Black, and I found it a bit difficult to play accurately with my camp so cramped up from the Queenside. I would pull through from the opening frequently, I'd even take an advantage for a good bit of time, but I got blindsided enough for him to come back and win the overall game both times.
d6. So we have ourselves a fan of the Philidor's Defense. I openly herald this opening as a passive opening for Black, as it immediately does White the favor of trapping the bishop on f8. It's rather easy, I find as White, to grab hold of the center almost right away and launch early attacks, as Bb4 is not a problem to worry about most of the match. However, he handles this defense well when in a Blitz match, and I'll show you how this happens.
Main line for White. Philidor himself, when he invented this opening, believes that the opening is best played for Black to now attempt f5, with a counter-threat on e4 and a nice diagonal on the light bishop. Opening theorists have ultimately decided that should White play carefully, however, none of these lines result in equal positions, but rather an advantage for White as the color ultimately gets the first attack.
But, this is my opponent's twist on the opening. f6, blocking the knight. Black welcomes White to try to seize the light squares, while Black tries to capitalize on his own patience and the dark squares.
I had a bit of a think here, the choice of two developed or two non-developed pieces to pick to block the check. In the end, I decided I wanted him to spend more time moving his queen than making other decent developing moves.
Move the pawn, move the Queen, or move the Bishop. This move caused me the least amount of grief in my own mind, though it does become a weakness as the Queen is its only defender.
This move finally appears, developing a virtually useless bishop given my pieces occupy mostly the light squares. Black hardly has much other use for it at this time.
But even though I'm down for material, White has four very active pieces, whereas Black really only has his queen and knight. Dropping that pawn wasn't going to be the end of the world, because I was pretty sure I was ahead in development. I was working my way toward having about 7 and a half minutes at this point, so I was pretty comfortable with where I was.
Whereas Black has a very clear target in mind: f5. It's a bit bizarre, because even though Philidor's defense isn't exactly among the list of Black's most successful defenses, here my opponent found himself having a very clear reach of the key square the former GM prided himself in regard to this opening. I may be ahead in development, but for me to use that development to form some sort of attack, I needed an idea on how to clear the air on Black's side of the board. And right now, that meant going on the defensive.
This was probably best for Black. Qc7 has a lot of blockage before h2 is reached on my side, but at least the Queen over here gives the bishop more power. However, Black has now moved the Queen five times, just to return her to her original position.
Now the Rook must retreat. I did also have 25. Bxg5, equalizing material after ...fxg5, Rxa6. At the time, I didn't see it, but even if I did, I'm not all that convinced that opening the f-file would be in my best interests. An alternative line I can see continuing this is ...Rb4, Bd3 Rb3, Rd1 Rb2, Nf5. But the thing is, White's Knight is now stuck being a defensive, though rather well guarded piece. But now my f2 pawn becomes horridly weak, and even though it's not immediately clear to me how Black could have exploited this (perhaps by stacking the rooks?) I think I'm right in not wanting to give the Black rook pair a new possible way of entering the game, and that the closing of the f-file is worth being down a pawn.
I defend, but at least my rooks are coordinated this time.
My four back pieces might be stronger than Black's, but I am down FIVE PAWNS against him. I have almost half the number of his pieces, and my situation is growing more increasingly desperate.
Bh6, Rf3, Rf1. Between all three of them, I felt this one gave me the greatest chances of escaping the most positions resulting in check. With Rf3, I was worried that a rook capture would be check, and with Bh6, I wasn't too entirely confident that the resulting checks after ...Rf7, Qg5+ Kh8 with the bishop on h6 would rescue me from the Queen and Bishop screaming down my King and Rooks. Looking at the Bh6 line now, it looks a little more promising, but I didn't have much time to entertain what would be my final big think for my only chance to turn the game around.
And here it is, a smothered Mate, with White being down the equal of two minor pieces! I really barely managed to pull the win out of this one, and I was sure I was had after that skewer on c3 and e1. This truly was a fight to the bitter end, a game I should not have won after some of the mistakes I had made. It was an interesting set of games none the less, and it should remind all players that no matter how down you are in material, the chance to come back and save the game could appear at any moment! I had made a great friend for blitzing, at least, and I had loads of fun with these games. Thanks for reading this annotation!
This is standard
This is the main line.
This is normal too.
This is the most popular move too.
This is thematic in this opening.
He takes.
This move takes us out of the opening databases. Instead b6 or e5 are normally played in this position. The problem with this move is that it is opening up the position somewhat for my two bishops. Black should be trying to keep the position closed.
He takes back.
I can't remember why I played this!
He takes.
He takes back.
He takes back.
He takes.
So I played this instead.
He takes.
He takes.
He takes.
It advances.
Black has virtually run out of moves now. next move I am going to play my Bb6 to either d4 or d8 and then win the f pawn, so black resigned.<n><n>Many thanks for reading my annotation. Please leave a comment or two. Did I miss any better moves anywhere? I wouldn't be too surprised! Please rate the annotation on the start system, so that I know how I am getting on. Until next time dear reader!
i actually wanted a king's gambit i have so little experience from the black side.
black has just won the initiative.
and he lost it as well.
closing the game
attacking 2 pieces.
this is a nice ened to this game
not really but it kinda did not work and i lost a pawn for my efforts
i pinned his queen but i truelly think that this is too little way too late
i cannot stop ra8 which would spell mate i resigned here. for after ra8 my queen has to interpose the cehck and he checks with his knight on e7 and i have to unguard my queen the rook takes(either one) and its mate.
Quick win with the Kings Gambit...
White has 3 pieces developed, Black none.
...so I defend it with my queenside one, with the King's Pawn game...
He advances the pawn in front of his rook...
...so I line up its pawn with my rook in the far right-hand corner.
...so I complete the obliteration of his queenside pawns, leaving me with a four pawn advantage, with my extra four pawns passed.
...so my queen retreats to the far side to attack him again...
I reply with the Sicilian Defence
And I play the Classical Variation
I carry on with the main line
I carry on with main line
I, and probably most Sicilian players, prefer to meet this, rather than the sharper variations where White castles queen side and Black on the king side and both sides throw forward their pawns against the respective kings.
This is a bit unusual
This is unusual too. He is hoping to follow up with e5. It is not on Gameknot's world database, it is on their database of Gameknot games - although of course, as this is an over-the-board game, I didn't know at the time.
I retreat. Computer agrees this is best.
This is a logical move. I think he was planning on playing his bishop back to c1, but I decided not to give him a chance. Computer prefers c3, but for reasons I explain later, I don't think c3 is a good move. I tend to think computers play tactical positions very well, but strategic positions like this, they are not so good. Any views?
He naturally takes back.
I complete the development on my minor pieces, but computer prefers the immediate Na5. I don't think it makes much difference.
I'm not a great fan of this move. Presumably the ideas are to support d4 and to give his bishop another square on c2. The disadvanatge is that black's basic plan in this position - and most other open Sicilian positions - is to launch a minority attack with the 2 black queen side pawns against the 3 white queen side pawns, hopefully eventually weakening and winning a white pawn. c3 makes a target for black, if black can get in b4-b5 and then exchange on c3, files are opened on the queen side, white's pawns are weaker.
This is also part of the plan. Computer likes this move too!
He attacks my queen. Computer likes this move too, although I am not impressed, I think it weakens white's pawns.
Computer likes this move.
Computer agrees with this move. All part of my master strategy!
I thought that this gave me a won ending, although computer prefers d5 and assesses the position as "black has the upper hand".
Computer actually prefers the recapture with the pawn, and thinks black is 1.56 ahead. This seems much easier to me, the bishops are getting into play on the queen side with a vengence! Any views dear reader?
This is the best move for him
Computer actually prefers Bc6, with the idea of taking on f3, but I think it is better to play this, my bishops are so good! Any views?
I tend to think he is so tied up, this position is won for black whatever he plays.
He takes.
I don't fall for Kxf6??
I have this
and now black has several discovered checks to win. OK many thanks for reading this, please comment and rate my annotation!
I opened with d4. I've had the most success with this opening. In the first game, elyhim mentioned that most would argue playing d4 is done to avoid opening tactics and leads to closed equal positions. I haven't played it enough to recognize that fact yet. What I know is I win more with this opening than with e4.
this move surprised me a little. I really expected the fianchetto. Now I see d4 as a bit weak, but I don't think c5 is coming. While c5 might open up the queen side a bit, that doesn't seem to be consistent with the d5 pressure.
so I think I'll castle and worry about it later  :)
this particular move was a key learning move for me. It was an error. In a subsequent game I played in an MT, I noticed my opponent made this exact move and was able to take advantage of it based on elyhim's instruction. I wish I had the comments from the chat to share here, but they were erased.
elyhim indicates a better move would have been a3. This move made the situation worse. Post game analysis shows this as an inaccuracy. I didn't see the pawn fork at e4. Again, I used a similar tactic in a game against someone else.
this is why elyhim thought it would be a good idea to defend with a3.
I have a real problem with knights... as you will soon see. I have a difficult time seeing all the possibilities. I know this is an issue in my game and once solved, I'll be a much better player. I moved my knight in this position thinking I would eventually somehow get my queen over to the king side and wreak havoc... I missed the obvious defender on f6.
lots of end game pressure.
step two, reconstitute queen (teleport complete)
at this point, I see the forced mate and resign.<n><n>Hope you all enjoy the annotation.<n><n>Thanks Terence for the game and instructional chat.
So far the opening has been quite easy to play. I was expecting him to play d5 and move into the grunfeld defence at this point. Nf3 is more of a waiting move with the hopes that he plays d5. I was sort of hoping for it since it was one of the few openings that I actually had prepared for that day. However my opponent didn't play with a lot of ambition and just sort of turtled up.
Not the move I was hoping for, but a valid move. For as far as I understand the position he'll turtle up and wait for me to go on the offensive and then hope to somewhere gain an edge.
This move took me a surprising long time to make. The idea is very simple, but I had to look into the entire b5 affair.The idea is to capture the knight on f6. He loses a pawn if he recaptures with the bishop so he'll recapture with the f-pawn. It creates a nice open e-file for black, but his bishop is temporarily rather bad and the doubled pawns don't help a lot in defending his position. The open e-file can also serve as a way to get my own pieces into the attack.
I didn't see it coming and most would have just played bxa3 or Rxa3 in an instant here however I  notice that capturing the pawn on h6 comes with check. I know what I want to play here, but still spent quite some time recounting the material over and over again. I may not have a lot of time left, but with a 30 second increment per move I won't run out.
Had I played in this tournament half a year ago I wouldn't have found this move. But now I played it with little hesitation. I blame all the puzzles I solved over the course of the year sacrificing all types of pieces. The idea behind Nh4 is to play Nxg6.
Here my opponent resigns since after Qh7 Rxh7+ there's nothing he can do. My opponent played well considering how little time he used ( he ended up using 40 minutes of his 1.5 hours ) and the position never reached a stage where either one of us was down 1 according to computer analysis, but it makes me wonder what he could have come up with had he used more of his time. My performance wasn't as convincing as I had liked either, but it'll do. This game is the first out of 9 games that will be played. I started well, hopefully my second game has the same result.
Alternative variation: 18. cxd5 b5 19. Nc2 Nxc2 20. Qxc2 Bb7 ( 20... f6 21. Qxc8+) 21. f6 g6 (21... gxf6 22. Qc7 Qxc7 23. Rxc7 Bc8 24. Rxf6 Kd8 25. d6) 22. Be2 O-O (22... Rb8 23. Qc3) 23. Qc7<n>Alternative variation: 18. Nxd5 Bb7 (18... f6 19. c5 bxc5 20. b4) 19. f6 g6
Alternative variation: 21. Be4<n>Alternative variation: 21. Bxh5+ Ke7 22. Qg4 (22. Nc2 Nxc2 23. Rxc2 Rh7 24. Rd2 d6 25. Rd3 Rah8 26. Rh3)<n>Alternative variation: 21. Be4
Alternative variation: 22. dxc7 Bxd1 23. Rcxd1 Rc8 24. Nd5
Alternative variation: 46. Rxg4 Re5 (46... Ke5 47. Rh4) 47. Kg1 e3 48. Kf1 Rxf5+ 49. Ke2<n>Alternative variation: 46. Rxg4 e3 47. Ra4 Re5
I was only trying to play the Queen's pawn game, but Black decided to take Long Ave. and play this move resulting in the Queen's Pawn (A40), English Defence.<n>This opening gives me, playing as white, an option to double check for tricks, or develope the wrong piece and lose.
This move was an inaccurate move. It does not pin the knight and Nc6 Blocks the Bishop's entire usage. Analysis recommended 2...Nf6 (Why did analysis consider this inaccurate when anyone playing this opening plays this line)? I think we should ignore the analysis's opinion because I see both sides of the argument.
I'm still questioning Black's tactic for this opening, but the next two moves I play poison my position slightly. However, I'm not going to end up as mashed potatoes for Black.
I'm bewildered about the moves played in an unusual opening: Why is Black not paying attention to his winning threat and is more focused on my queenside threat? I really think I shouldn't have played moves 7 and 8.
When this move was played, it was played too late (according to analysis).
Analysis liked this move, but wait til you see how I blow up this breakthrough.
Ridiculous Rook moves when I would have been smart enough to have my a-rook to d1, but with this game, there's no tactics involved! On move 23, I missed a two move mate 23.Rad1 (I wonder if anyone else had an insane game like this)!
Finally, it is mate. I never actually liked this game. Motto: Make sure that before you attack, you have a successful way of doing so. Also note that using tactics is better than making moves that came out of no where. I will never try to have another game like this frantic frenzy, but I'll learn from more of this if it happens again.
The game has now become a race on each side, with the advantage going to whoever can break down the opponent defence fastest.
With hindsight, I think fxe6 would have been better, and opening up the f file to bring the black Queen away from the defence of the b4 pawn.
Hoping to get in h5 and make a hole somewhere in the black defences.
One of many choices I normally use in opening. All designed to maximize the particular defensive structure I choose for the game in question, while making attempts to control the center board.
I think I must of lost track of the queen.
I lost . how can i keep better track of the queen.
Sicilian defense is the most common opening VS. 1.e4 these days.
White alternative choices are...<n> <n>A. 3.Bb5  is Moscow variation it helps Black's development, so i dont recommend<n>B. 3. c3 the alapins it sets a trap up too after 3.Nf6 4.Be2 Nxe4?? 5.Qa5 ! wins<n>        a bishop but the problem is after 4. Nbd7 White will have a awkward <n>      position after 5. Qe2 or 5.Bd3
This move initiates the Najdorf's pet opening the Narjdorf variation<n> Other choices Black has instead are;<n> <n>A. 5. g6 Sicilian dragon (most popular, I don't play it much, but i recommend it)<n><n>B. 5.Nc6 Sicilian classical variation ( not the  fun Sicilian, i dont recommend)<n><n>C. 5. e6  I like to play as White because I like to use the Keres attack 6.g4<n>        ( another reason Paul Keres is my faveroute chess player.
Blacks only choice....
defeat for Black is imminent!
Black resigned at this point, as to much is being threatened 26. Qxe7  Kc6  <n>  27. Qc7 checkmate! and 26. Qxb5  Kd8 27. Bxd6 Which is winning for White.<n>   GREAT GAME!! Paul Keres  beating Miguel Najdorf and against his own opening, LOL!  If you rate this 2 or less you must tell me why you have, but if<n> you have any feedback then please send me a message!<n>    Cheers!
My typical opening style. I find this to accomplish the same goals as a e4 or d4 opening, and it has been quite successful for me.
This is a game I lost. I underestimated my opponent's attack. It's a Sicilian, Rossolimo variation. I never thought it was a particularly offensive variation, but I had to change my mind.
I have a solid center, a rook on an open file, I can't complain overall. The thing is, my pieces are drifting away from the king-side, and I am not thinking of aggressive resources of my opponent at all. I think this move is already a bit unconventional. First, 10. ... a5 fit better the idea of queen-side attack. Second, Black has to think about what will happen when White will push forward the e-pawn. And I am not doing that.
The bitter truth. e6 will become a far too easy target, if the Black takes the pawn otherwise.
Black resigns. So if you're attacked, don't forget: seek space and bring the pieces to the bombed area!
3. Be3 - unusual development - blocks in white's e2 pawn.
4. h4 - hmm, has he seen a few of my games against The Master Mater and decided to try and emulate him?
All most logical, now the idea for black would be to attack on his queen´s (obviously, with that extra pawn and the whole column open) while wrestling on his king´s
As I said. Now black has most of his castling holding together and should start focusing on developing his queen´s side.
As mentioned before, I thought black would be developing his pieces and attacking on my queen´s side, but instead it came out with an interesting counterattack I did not predict at all. And in a blitz game that might be half a game won.
i did this to try and intimidate my opponent, to really try to make him scared
hoping for the exchange
seems lost well actualy it doesn't its an obvious win for white
he resigned
Oh no! the dreaded c3 Sicilian.  A few years ago I got so fed up with facing this boring riposte to my favourite opening that I bought Murray Chandler's book on it.  I wish I'd studied it more effectively and done my revision more recently!  In our post-match analysis, Matt admitted that he'd taken up this opening  because "if you can't beat them, join them".  He too had used the Chandler book to learn it.
I'd feared this.  Now I fantasised about N or B x d4 and failed to find a satisfactory conclusion.  Subsequent analysis suggested that this would have been successful: 18.... Bxd4 19. Nxd4 Qxd4 (I'd only considered Nxd4 at the time) 20. Qxd4 Nxd4 21. Nxb7 Nxb3 looks OK.  Other lines also seem OK for Black.  I failed to see far enough and blundered.
I won this game against a superior opponent.  He made one fatal blunder which cost him his queen. Moves one through six are thematic involving a Queen sacrifice to put pressure on blacks king
I love the Sicilian as black and play it often.
Black takes out my light squared bishop his best trade here.
Wearing him down while winning his a pawn.
At this moment, Black could choose to take on e4 thus entering the Rubinstein variation, but with a somewhat passive game. But if White is not cautious, Black could awaken his pawn majority (e and f) on the king side as Alexander Alekhine showed. This will be the case in this game as Black is going to transpose in this variation later.
Now we have 4...Be7 entering the main line of the classical variation (I believe White is better here), 4...Bb4 with the crazy Mac Cutcheon Variation.
(!) but this is the right move, by not spoiling too much his winning chances, Black is transposing into the Rubinstein variation, with the Bg5 not naturally posted here : in fact this is not the best arrangement of pieces that white could dream of here.
Here Black had the opportunity of taking on f6 with his g Pawn opening the g file for his Rooks and castling queen side.
This move is new. The best move for Black should be 10...e5 and even after the exchange of Queens on f6, the ending is quite good for Black due to his advance in development.
Happily my opponent missed the strong 11.Qg3 and it is not easy for Black to push the e-pawn without half sacrificing it and falling into complicated and double-edged play.
Now Black has a pawn duo attacking with his pieces behind, and the White King cannot castle queen side due to the Black Queen on h6. Black is better now.
With the idea of fxg3 with a discovered check on the Queen.
white has a definite plus here, i control the centre well and have a development advantage.
the black queen is history
black hopes to win another minor piece for his queen, maybe Bxe7 retaining the option of castling is a better try
Good. Black "must" play this move sooner or later in this opening.
The anti natural key move of this opening.
My bishop is blocked, but this allows me to play the sac (Ng5). Black's self blocked pieces are playing in my favour, so I have time for another preparatory move.
I liked it. It is not a "perfect" sac, but it was too nice not to play it.
Black thinks all his problems will fade by exchanging queens, but it is not so easy.
This simple move is definitory. Black is tied to defend the h column, and this allows me to play freely and eventually recover the piece.
1.e4 remaining as the all time favourite move to begin the game with, no matter are you beginner or grandmaster you are going to face this best-by-test move more than any other opening move. But back to the game, my opponent decided to go for this instead of playing 1.d4 which was his main opening move(I would have tried to go for kings indian defence if that would have happened).
My main defence against e4. I play other moves here too but it is a good rule when facing a stronger opponent on paper to go for the opening which you know the best.
Some call this a modern approach of this opening as after many games and research done with the move 9. 0-0-0 this is regarded as the best shot by white to get the advantage in game(keep in mind, that in openings you never know when old moves come into fashion again. There is surely room for new ideas in 0-0-0 variation, you just have to find them). This move is to prevent any ...d6-d5 plans while developing light-squared bishop to its most active diagonal. So what white is planning then? Long castle, h2-h4-h5, Be3-h6 if needed, launching attack against black king.
Black has to start working on his own counterplay queenside. There is nothing else now that we have come here so thematic c-file control in sicilian is a great way to start it.
Flank attack, following the spirit of this opening and starting the attack against black king.
This is already looking dangerous for black(if you look deeper in position you might disagree) but 23...gxh5 is the only option, what else, and now we see a quite odd thing. Rook that was played to c5 square suddenly eyes this pawn aswell. White can't go for 24.Rxh5 cause black just goes 24...Nxf3 25.Nxf3 Rxh5. From how the game goes on it might be that 24.bxa3 would have been the right move as a-pawn is going to be troublesome in this game.
White is already in position which can be resigned but this good example how to win this position with black and something like this could be found from some endgame manual even(yes, I am flattering myself cause I was and still am so happy about this game.)
No surprise, now it is just playing.
And white resigned, showing that title players are not immortal(even against patzer like me). Black made few small inaccuracies which lost him the game: maybe trading the bishop to rook and not taking a3 pawn earlier in the game where bad choices and f3-f4-f5 push was something horribly wrong. Endgame which arose was really nice for myself to get a win out of it(feels good). Hopefully you find this game exciting aswell. I won't say it is 100% won endgame but it is clear that black is playing for win, which I did!
Expanding the position of my pieces.
So far we have a Reversed Sicilian line of the English opening.
I actually don't intend to hold onto the pawn, and yet I intend to make him work for it.
Perhaps a queen defending a pawn is a touch rediculous, but I couldn't see an easy way for him to exploit her position!
I've accepted an isolated queen pawn position because I have made a surface study of Tarrasch-style positions.
He didn't see this move coming and this is completely wrong.  Perhaps he never understood the goal of attacking d5?
Threatening the queen seems hollow.  What if I accept?  Even if I lose the queen, a queen for a bishop and rook is very close to an equal exchange.  I can't say I actually worked it out.  It seemed to promise an interesting game, so I played it!
I think he should have played either Qxe7, Nxe7, or just about anything.  After the exchange his pieces will lack any coordination.
I'm up 6 points.  My position looks reasonable.  I'm probably going to trade down until we reach a very favorable end-game unless I find a promising attack.
This applies further pressure on the centre and opens the diagonal for my lsb. The disadvantage of this position is that it is tricky to get my dsb to a good diagonal, it is however supporting the c5 pawn should it be needed
Opening up possibilities of castling long, if he does however I am ready for a queen side assault
I have the option now of opening the game up by taking the pawn or closing the centre and possibly opening the e file with pawn d5
Finally it falls and he has two strong knights in the centre
He has completely demolished the centre however my forces are not too badly placed for an attack
Possibly no tthe best move but it puts the rook on a half open file and resigns the white queen to defending a pawn
Not sure why white played this. It gives away a tempo.
The accelerated dragon.  Often, the goal in this opening is to proceed as a regular sicilian dragon but to delay d6 in order to get in d5 directly, thereby saving a tempo.
Book so far, but many top level players prefer 5. c4!? here, setting up the Maroczy bind.  <n><n>For me, however, I'm content to go ahead and develop my pieces at leisure.
And now white is up a pawn.  Note how useful it is for white to have NOT played f3, as the pawn on f2 protects the Be3.  (I had to calculate this back on move 7 -- something I couldn't have done were this not correspondence chess!)
Offering a queen exchange to blunt the firepower in black's attack.
This is definitely too slow now.  Black needed to try Rxc4 and try his luck in an inferior endgame.
!  The black bishop on a2 is lost now.  Black must recapture with the king or white simply has an overwhelming advantage.
But the threat is a phantom.  The bishop will fall and all black will get is a pawn at most.  After 22. ... Rc5 (the only way to threaten the light-squared bishop), 23. Rh-d1 clinches the win for white.  Black resigns 1-0.<n><n>This game just goes to show that pawn-grabbing is not just bad in the opening, but can be fatal even in the endgame!
This game evolved from a rather rare line of the Sicilian to an extremely complex middlegame - and ended up with an "objectively drawn" endgame with opposite coloured Bishops. Unfortunately these kind of endgames are seldomly played out - because there are still a lot of tactics involved. But let�s start with the beginning...
We are at the crossroads of theory. White can opt for the Maroczy with 5. c4, which is linked with the English Opening, or go for 5. Nc3 - the so-called Classical. This line can even lead to the more orthodox Dragon. Of course there are other moves, and my opponent prefers one of these. But it just leads to a transposition in a few moves.
(!) This is the critical test of the line, according to a specialist in this opening, GM Heine Nielsen. Black has no tricks with a Queen move to b6, and White prepares an attack on the King-side with f2-f3, Qd2, 0-0-0 and h4. Black has other ways to go though, and I chose to try a fianchetto of the other Bishop too. This leads to a very open game.
This is the kind of position I would hate to have in a blitz-game - even with a pawn up! Of course the Black d-pawn is strong, but White has plenty of play around it, and the final question could be: Which King is the safest. I decided to seek for simplifications instead.
Hoping for a Queen-swap, but my opponent rightly tries to get it under the best conditions.
Please look at this position. I must admit it took me ages to analyze it - but it leads almost forced to an endgame with opposite Bishops and Black a pawn up! Whites problem is the lack of communication of his light pieces and the threat of mate on the baseline. Without these tactics, Black would have been out of ammo, with only a handshake left...
After all the fighting this is an esthetically beautiful position: Two Bishops left right beside each other - and ready for a very different kind of game. I am no expert on endgames (but I love to play them!), and my opinion around here was: Probably a draw, but with pawns on both sides, Black has chances. First: Get a passed pawn on the king-side.
My opponent plays very skillfully in his attempt to take out the venom of the pawn-majority.
Sicilian Defense.
White is hoping for a tactic due to the fact that the black kings lack of squares. It is difficult for white to engineer this however.
This makes an annoying passed pawn on the queenside.
Winning a pawn and the game.
Breyer's line, with the development of both Knights before moving a Pawn, is peculiarly his own. [Now known as the Breyer Variation of the Niemzowitsch Defense -- LA]
N-B3 would lead into a fairly simple variation of the Four Knights' Game, but naturally White hopes for more.
If now 12 NxBP Q-Q5 ch 13 K-R1 QxB 14 NxKR, and Black virtually has 2 pieces for his Rook. The best line for White was the simple 12 B-N3.
In return for the sacrifice of the Exchange it is Black who has the strong point on K4, a surprising turn after his opening moves.
If 20... N-Q1, White recovers his piece with 21 B-N5 P-KR3 22 BxN QxB 23 QxP N-B3 24 N-K4.
I am going to annotate a game played in the 70s by Kasparov, the strongest player in chess history. This consisted of a pawn sacrifice(pure) in the opening. the compensation black gets is not very clear, and white gets an edge, but Kasparov uses his skill to win back the material and after some more tactics, he emerges with a decisive material advantage.
the standard opening strategy here. Black fights for the center with pieces, and white occupies it with pawns.
black is now down a pawn. However, the compensation he gets is unclear. he averts time loss by not retreating the knight, but a closed position like time has little meaning. He does gain the bishop pair, and he can make the remaining white bishop very passive. These factors may compensate him, as they are long term advantages in this closed position.
black's compensation for the pawn is very long term.
this targets the black pawns, but black can win more material.
another move with a tactical flaw. Black gains a decisive advantage here.
this is crushing for black. White resigns.
My opponent has other ideas.
With black's attack refuted it is time to start an assault on his position, I begin by attacking his unguarded f-pawn.
Lining up the rook again (threatening Rxd5+) all the responses for black's defense of the d-pawn weaken his position.
Setting up for the final assault, at which point black sees the inevitable and resigns. I did not have a forced win, but he would have had a sharp defense that because of his structural weaknesses he could not have withstood for very long.<n><n>I would have to say that I enjoyed this game very much. It was against a very tough opponent in an opening that I had never played before that made it very interesting.
No choice, g3 loses a pawn. White can not castle anymore and with the f-pawn offered in the gambit black may have a chance to launch an attack on this side.
Note: This is the first move on the second day of the game. Black is playing from a hotel room in North Carolina at 4 am (jetlag).
Not much choice actually, maybe Qe7 or Qb4. This is actually a fairly risky move, with many black pieces parked in corners.
Thinking that there's time for such a move, black takes the g-pawn with its h-pawn that was written off already, completely missing the checkmate in one.....
Terrible finish of an exciting game...<n><n>23..., Qf6. 24. Qh7 , Kf8. 25. Qxh5, would have saved the day.
The Sicilian Defense. I don't like this opening, because it has too much defense. I like more open games, preferably the Scottish. Anyhow, I always play the same way against opponents that play this.
Black has an advantage in development which will tell.
did not see the attack on the b pawn
I am annotating this game for the benefit of my teammates in the Kingslayers.  Welcome all comments so we can improve together.
Sicilian defense, standard stuff.
All pretty standard/book play thus far.
White has a fractured queenside pawn structure and has lost castle, but is only down 1 pawn, so still a competitive game.
Continuing on with the development of Black's pieces.
Black's final development is seriously hampered by the LSB on e4, so in order to uncomplicate things, I decided to trade pieces, allowing more flexibility in maneuvering.
And White denied Black.  A good rule of thumb when you're down in points is to trade pawns and not pieces (unless you're trading up!).  With this move White further complicates Black's position and Black has no easy way to extract the bishop.  Nice move.
Tempo move and completed development of Black's pieces (only 21 moves in!)
No choice for White now.
The games all start here. It didn't really help my playing that I would never ever play an opening like this, it's just too risky.
And brings his last piece into the battle. Just look at this position. He has all of his pieces attacking me, and the only piece I really have defending is my queen.
Just trying to maintain symmetry which is a well-known technique for Black in the French exchange variation to achieve a draw. However, this move leaves my pawn on b7 undefended and my opponent doesn't hesitate to exploit that...
The opponent accepts.
Ah, here it comes. White's pawns are getting quite annoying at the kingside, at the price that two of his minor pieces aren't developed yet.
Okay, he takes.
... so why not attack it?
! Opens up the powerful c-file. According to a nearby kiebitz, the opponent said "Respekt!" when he saw this move, but I'm not sure because I couldn't understand him accoustically.
At this point I'm happy to know that I win my lost pawn back!
At this point I resigned. Mr. Schwab was very nice and offered to take the move back and play another one instead "to keep the game interesting". I happily agreed and played 28... Nc6 instead of my blunder, but lost the game after approx. 12 moves anyway, because I couldn't avoid the queening of his a-pawn at the end.<n><n>However, the event was great fun and I encourage all interested chess players in Vienna to participate in one of the future tournaments or simultaneous exhibitions organized by the "Schachfreund", it's really nice.<n>Not to forget, five participants achieved a draw against the FIDE Master, hats off!
Queens gambit declined one of my favorites. It has the rep of being a quiet game but it does have some very flashy variations.
Semi-Slav is a very solid defensive choice.
Wow Ratkop is playing like his mentor(which is me) this is exactly what I play most of the time. As I always say to my students consolidating your centre and develop your pieces is paramount.
!? not my choice of move. For one it greatly reduces the tension in the center which benefits black more than white. Secondly, white makes a pawn move when there are pieces that need developing. I would have played 8. Qc2 <n>Alternative variation: 8. Qc2 dxc4 9. Bxc4 b5 10. Bd3 [⩲]
It is good to see that white has a clear simple plan here. His idea is to gain space on the queen side with the hope of creating a passer later on.
The centre is closed and subtle manoeuvrings to improve your pieces becomes the priority. Lets see how white does.
So far so good. Now any opening of the position should benefit white.
?!<n>Alternative variation: 22. Nd1 [only move] 22... Qf6 23. Qc3 Nc7 24. Rc2 Ne6 25. Rd2 Ng5 26. Nfe3 [⩱]
and white is back in the game.
The sicilian defense! the move ideally prevents white from 2. d4 (taking good control of the center) and gets the game started for the Queen.
Black gets his DSB off the back rank, developing a minor piece. It now protects both e and c-pawns, so it is a little overworked.<n>The move is not too bad, although in hindsight, a better square for the DSB at this stage could have been e7 instead, choosing 4. ... d6 before.<n>Now the d-pawn is stuck behind  the DSB, and the LSB is also therefore stuck! However, this way the knight isn't pinned yet, and is one of three attackers of the d4 square; not too shabby!
...And he does so by developing his queen! Bishop is now well defended enough, and actually Black has a choice of which side to castle to.
White goes for an exchange, perhaps hoping Black will cripple himself with a doubled pawn on the C-file, and a semi open D-file.
So far black's plan seems to be working, as white is fully expecting an attack in the center, for which he is prepared with his second rook.
It seems like this move is meant to reinforce white's pawn structure. However, this has a huge drawback: white's queen is now relegated to a handful of squares, and will not be of any help at all in the coming attack.
In a last attempt, white tries to scare black's queen off, or at least to force an exchange...
"A logical and sound move to start the game, grabbing central space and opening lines for quick developement of the Bf1 and queen. Other pawn pushes with no real drawbacks include 1. d4 and 1. c4. And for our hypermodern players, there is always 1. Nf3, controlling the center with pieces and not commiting to a set pawn structure. "<n>Morphy one and only true love, his confidence never wavered with the best move "best by Test" Bobby Fischer.
The Italian game. An old opening that is now thought to be rather dull and boring. Black now has two main options here 3....Bc5 the Giuoco Piano or 3... Nf6 The Two Knight's Defence. The Italian game can evolve into the romantic Evans Gambit if 3...Bc5 then 4. b4!?
This the move that signals the beginning of the Evans.  White sacrifices a pawn for center control and a kingside Initiative with a quick attack on the Black king which will hopefully end in mate. Most  gambits like these give White an early initiative, however  if Black can defend accurately, he stands better in the ensuing endgame, with plenty of chances for a win. When people tell me this I simply reply " I don't give a crap, I don't plan letting Black get into an endgame position anyway. Lol."
It is often said that the way to refute a gambit is to accept it. Black grabs a pawn so as to have the option of uploading it in a later stage in the game in order to neutralize whites resulting initiative. This is atleast what Black  is meant to try and do!
An exchange in the centre.
Keeping the pressure on the d-pawn. However it is obvios that White has the edge in this positiion.
Not wanting to trade that good bishop for that half-knight stranded passively on the side of the board where it will find it hard to affect the game.
CHECK AND MATE! This shows Morphy was always was a big one for development( just look at all the other games by Morphy I have annotated.!). Perhaps the first chess player to stress the need to develop before you attack... He just simply annihilated all the competition in his time. I believe that he was the greatest player of all time, his genius goes along with Capablanca, Alekhine, Fischer, and Tal. I hope you liked this game. I hope you liked this game. I'm happy for positive and negative feedback aslong as its constructive criticism! and feel free to leave comments. One thing I would like you to do is before you rate this game please think honestly and think how I can improve on it and leave comments and PM me with them. Don't just give one and a half stars and not tell me why leave a comment or PM.<n>Thanks<n>Tom
(?!) Philidor's move, which was very fashionable at the time, but which is objectively more than dubious, and perhaps even losing. Opening theory has gone A VERY LONG way since those days...
GM Murey tried to find a win after 19...e3?! 20.Bxe3 Bf5, but without successL 21.Qc2! Qxa2 22.Bd3 Bxd3 (22...Ba3 or 22...Rxb2 - 23.Bxf5) 23.Rxd3 Ba3 (23...Rxb2 24.Qxb2 Ba3 25.Qxa3!) 24.Qb1! (24.bxa3 Qa1+ 25.Kd2 Qxh1 26.c4! Qxh2+ 27.Kc3 will also do) 24...Bxb2+ 25.Kc2 Qa4+ 26.Kd2 Bxc3+ 27.Rxc3 Rxb1 28.Rxb1 Qa2+ 29.Kc1, diffusing Black's attack while retaining the extra material.
(?) According to Maroczy, 22.Kc1! would have forced a draw by perpetual check (22...Qa1+), since 22...Bxb4? is wrong in view of 23.cxb4 Rxb4 24.Qg5 (24.Qc2 Qa3+ 25.Kd2 Rb2  26.Rc1 is also possible) 24...Qa3+ 25.Kd2 Rb2+ 26.Ke1 Rxe2+ 27.Kxe2 Qf3+ 28.Ke1 Qxh1+ 29.Qg1 Qf3 20.Qg3.<n>However, with the help of any decent modern engine, we can establish that 22...Bf5! (22...a5 23.Qc2 Qa3+ 24.Qb2 axb4 25.Kc2 Ba6 26.Bf1! is unclear) 23,Be1! Qa1+ 24.Kc2 e3+ 25.Kb3 exd2 26.Rxa1 Re8 27.Ba6 dxe1=Q 28.Raxe1 Rxe1 29.Rxe1 Bxh2 30.Bb7 Be4 31.Bxc6 Kf7 would nevertheless have given Black a minimal advantage (obviously less than after 17...Bg4!: here it is far closer to a draw). This is the present-day level of attack and defense, illustrating the COLOSSAL progress of chess during the past 150 plus years...
now this is very winning for black
Hi everyone!<n><n>The Sicilian is not an opening for the faint hearted.  Defense and passivitis will get you nowhere in the middlegame!  Well, I can tell you that neither player showed much passivitis in the middlegame.  However, unfortunately for my opponent, small-potato, a bigger concentration of white pieces in his position at the right time ensured that it was not Henry that was to topple.  In this game, much to black's chagrin, Glenda snapped out of her defensive role and became one hot potato!  So, how did all this happen?  Well, let's kick off with 1. e4 c4.  This is the Sicilian Defense and the word defense is a misnomer because both sides may end up being at each other's throats.
20. Bh3 - this seemingly innocuous bishop move is gonna net a material gain for me.  Now which black piece is en prise?
26. Qxg7 - I now snatch a pawn and am a full exchange up.  However, I must beware because there are still two major pieces and three pawns swarming around Henry at the moment.  I must therefore at least ensure that the two black minor pieces are firmly pinned down.  As an exercise for the Inquest Jury, which two black pieces are pinned at the moment and what by?
I wouldn't have minded 2... exd4, as my queen can gain a tempo and possibly sit nicely on the 3rd rank, but with this move I could potentially force both off the board if we trade pawns on e5...
...and he recaptures, isolating his pawn, making it a potential target.
...I attack it with my kingside one, hoping for an exchange...
...which is exactly what I get, and my queen sits nicely on the 3rd rank. I'm ahead on development again, with two pieces at least on the 3rd rank, to his none.
He's hoping to fianchetto his bishop with this move, no doubt hoping to surprise me on the long diagonal...
...I cover it with my rook's pawn...
...and my higher rook can move in for the kill, giving a two rook and two pawn checkmate. The moral of the story? You don't have to exchange all your best pieces in order to win. Also notice that since move 4, no more pawns were sacrificed, with me having seven, and my opponent six.
This is my traditional move where by i attempt to make a quick win by going for f 7......I admit it only works on weak opponents......so i use this opening to size up my opponent and see what i am up against
Now that i know my opponent is not an amateur, I begin to release my pieces, i have nothinng in mind yet
I took this opportunity to trade 3 points for 3 but i forced him to have two pawns in the same line.......It feels like an advantage of some sort
I have no choice but to eliminate the pawn in d3
I made this blunder and m happy he missed it
this was a blunder too because my Bishop is still in danger.......but I did not see it at the time
expecting cxd3 e.p.
Hoping to trade down a bit.
Rac1? possible a slight oversight though due to Bxc4 Nxc4 Nd3 which played out in the game however I believe white could win it back.
Seemingly winning the exchange but notice the pieces focused on c7.  I decide to let black decide and throw in a threat.  I was looking for the draw here.
Nb5! This move balances the powers of the game a bit.  Whites best try for some kind of counter play.  Black best might actually want to ignore the rooks for this turn and play Nc6 or possible Nd5 to respond to the threat I stumbled upon.  This seems to be a tall statement but lets continue the game.
This is an aggressive variation of the Fisher/Reti opening for black, that results in an upset win over a stronger player.  I got lucky, but it is interesting to see that this typically closed, slow, ponderous opening can be played very aggressively, provided white gives you an opening.  He opens with the common e4, to which I often respond with what is perceived be a weak reply, d6.
d4 is also common at this point.  Nf6 is a common reply for this opening, setting up pressure on the e4 pawn.
Another critical series of moves that define the game.  Any variation would have led to a different result, but I get lucky, and white takes the d5 pawn.
Terrible mistake. Otherwise, white is probably lost.
Most class A players would have no difficulty seeing this move.
What is the BEST MOVE for black?
Black's best line is 7... BxN 8 BxB Q-Q1 9 P-Q5, leaving White with a good game.
Kiirelt viib kaotusele ka etturiga löömine: 21... fxe5 22. f6+ Kf7 (22... Kh8 23. Rg6+) 23. Oc4+ Ke8 24. f7+ Kd8 25. Rd5 võimsa rünnakuga.
Reversed Alekhine Defense.
This makes the blunder worse, trading down the rook for the pawn.
And now the race is on. Can black get his pieces over to defend in time?
Possibly thinking of a discovered attack on white's queen. The problem is.......
While attacks of this nature on the enemy queen look good....................
As my good friend and teammate webb31620 is fond of saying - "Passed pawns MUST be pushed", although I'm sure he stole it from some GM:) Black is now on life support.
If there is one lesson to be learned from this game, let it be this......The development of minor pieces early is vital for long term plans. Unless your opponent makes an obvious blunder that allows you to maintain a strong attack with only a few pieces, it is always best to station your pieces on active squares early and THEN figure out what you want to do with them. My opponents slow development caused his position to be lost.
Oops ! Got rid of Bishop. White has better chance of dominating the board. As expected, because of the lack of the pieces Black resigned. White is victorious. So, Kapila ruled this game !
Having experimented with the Sicilian defense a few months ago I have returns to my prefered opening ...e5. Despite contrary advice I consider the best opening to be one that suits your style of play, or simply one that you are familiar with.
As a rule I prefer this to a Ruy Lopez opening (from blacks perspective), but I have had a number of disasters against the Lopez, so am probably biased against it.
In Irving Chernev's famous book, Logical Chess, he greatly criticizes weakening the structure in front of the king. I don't normally find any problems, at least against players my standard, so have continued to play h6.
Chooses to lock up the center. This move leaves me in a tricky position, I know he will attack down the g/h files, as indicated by his choice of opening, but both of my bishops are now blocked from helping to defend. My personal experience has shown that under an attack like this the best way to defend is attack
Played to allow my major pieces to defend the vulnerable g7 square against the threat of Rg1. However this wasn't the only threat white has in the position
This move would have to be played at some point, so might as well do it now. However the inevitable h5 comes next and a slow but unstopable threat is on the horizon. My only choice, as said many times before, is to attack
Naturally white has no incentive to play risky chess. His attack is well poised and I am rather floundering despite my material advantage
Grabbing the free pawn quite correctly, but even a quick glance at the position shows that for the first time in the match black has gained a winning position. An advantage of 5 pawns to 3. Here it is tempting to move Ra8 defending the a-pawn, but this takes my rook right out of the game...
1 of 3 moves available<n>1) Kf3, the game line<n>2) Kf1, leading to Qh1 and Qf3 and checkmate to follow<n>3) Ke2, leading to Qe3 and checkmate to follow<n>So in all probably the best move, but failing an awful blunder, white is lost
! secures my opponents resignation, my queen and rook will either force checkmate in a few, or I can take his queen and ease to victory Q vs R. Either way white saves himself some time and resigns.<n>In all a good match, both players showed some really good positional play, in the face of losing material we kept to our guns and showed material isn't everything.<n>Any comments on the game are welcomed, and I understand Robin is doing his own annotation of the game, so look out for that.
And Black wins back the rook and has brought his queen out.  Now how can White take advantage?  His bishop is pinned (as is Black's) and his king is exposed (though not quite as bad as Black's).  White can bring his queen into the action again pretty quickly.  The real advantage for White is his rook is on an open file while Black's rook is trapped and useless.
Philidor's defense.
Good development.
Two pieces are aiming at h3, and one of them is the most powerful piece on the board.
?? At this moment, I don't see Bh5.
Checkmate, extremely simple, the bishop protects the rook and stops Kf7, while the rook delivers the mate. Thanks for reading! Hope you enjoyed.
Marks the beginning of the Lavitan Gambit. This is totally new ground for me, meaning that my opponent (who calls this gambit his favourite) definatly has an edge
the bishop trade - usually not recommended, since Black is down in material, but it allows for castling for Black
Black does the same, and the king retreats to the other side of the board. Development is just about even, but White has the advantage, as he has more space to work with
...such as getting some breathing space for his pieces! White controls more of the board, and this plus the material advantage puts White at an advantage...
but the alternative, Nf5, didn't really make sense to me, as the knight had no purpose on that side of the board (I've heard that having too many pieces on one side of the board is supposed to be a bad thing, but why would white focus its attention to a measly two pawns on the kingside, especially when they pose no threat? well, maybe for the passed pawns, but it's too early for that)
The last of White's pieces get into the action, with the threat of a discovered attack to boot!
Black has been a little slow with his gameplay over the last couple of moves, but in view of White's next move, Black should have moved his queen here...
and expected. Black comes out of this another pawn down, but now he has an attack, whereas there isn't any clear attack on Black's king
at this point, I saw my queenside majority, I saw Rxg2... but I also saw White's f-pawn, which was a passed pawn. Since it would promote first, I couldn't launch an attack...yet
the knight moves to dispose of another one of Black's pawns... but blocks the passed pawn - this is the opportunity Black was looking for!
I was expecting Kg3, slowly advancing the h-pawn while defending with the king, but it turns out that this is much more effective
I played this out of my schemes.
It seems a good set for an attack, isn't it?
This seems good, too...
...and this, if it induces white to exchange BxN, provides my queen with a good square to escape and stops Nb5.
I just lost a piece for nothing.
Hurry, hurry, white has Nc6...
This game features the very dated variation of the Dragon where White wins a pawn but allows activity for Black. The main defender of this line for Black is GM Fedorov, scoring quite well with it.
The general aim for White in this line is to exchange pieces and enter the endgame where his extra pawn will grant him victory.
Exploiting the pin. Believe it or not, all of these moves have been played before. Here, the stem game continued with 29.Kb1, but after 29...exf4, Black survived.
34...Qf8 was more stubborn but after 35.Bxg7 Qxg7 36.Qxf4 he is two pawns down and out of threats to stay in the game.
Black resigned.<n><n>I'm still wondering why this line has fallen out of favor with top GMs, White just seems better and with a little defense he should hold on to the extra pawn and succeed in the endgame.
i think it's too soon to exchange a good knife with a not yet good knife
i think a beginner's wrong:<n>- 2 good bishop versus the castle<n>- a new problem, the G-column (a pawn it's now enough...)<n>- some time will be lost to save the queen from rook attack<n><n>it's a strange move for a good player...in general computers make this kind of wrong
too late to develop own pieces
He discovers a defense
While it *does* strike out at my center, I think it's too weakening.
?? I fall for it
I hesitated long but if black takes a4, I'll have one pawn late but the a black pawn will block the file as good as mine and anyway, I'll attack within two or three moves, so that it won't have time to be a queen. If I fail my attack, the game will be lost anyway but with queen, knight, two bishop and one rook on e file, my attack should succeed.
Hi all! Queen's pawns games are often considered to be less tactically sharp than games that begin with 1. e4. But this game certainly shows tactics can come in very quickly in some variations! This was a hard-fought game where white sacrifices material early to try to keep the initiative and not allow black to consolidate his material edge. It's a tense battle, with Black succeeding over time to force some of white's aggressive pieces off the board. So how did it turn out? Well, read on and don't forget to comment and rate.
So white knocks off black's central presence with his d-pawn.
Picking up the sacrificed piece, but still down a knight, with two pawns to show for it. But the initiative is the main fight here.
! I'll allow myself an exclamation mark for this move, as removing the b-pawn opens the a5-d8 diagonal while clearing the rook at the same time.
Simple - promote the pawn and win.
And black resigns, as soon the b-pawn will promote. Thanks to my opponent who defended well, and made me search for the right continuations. A crazy game, showing the importance of active pieces and also pins. Hope you enjoyed. Please comment and rate, and let me know what you liked and didn't like.
I like this move because it's not very well known and it has almost the exact same motives as 1. e4. This move develops a piece and attacks two central squares, albeit it does not open lines for pieces. I play this move when I want to play aggressively because I can't hope to play this move after 1. e4 when I am allured into playing 2. Nf3.
This is the move I wanted. It is perfectly playable as it does the same things as White's e4, but it's on Black's side. I wanted to play the Vienna Gambit this game, so my next move was played accordingly.
This move tears open the center with a side pawn in exchange for a weakened king-side. This is an aggressive move, but it's not as aggressive as the King's Gambit. The goal of this is to make a long-term queen-side attack or a short-term king-side attack. There are so many lines to this opening and the King's Gambit that there are thousands of books made for the opening in question, but nobody I know has analyzed both of these openings.
This is accepting the gambit. Black hopes to remain up a pawn the entire game but sacrifices his center-pawn. Other decline variations are possible including 2. ...d6 (not very good) 2. ...d5 (may be good), and 2. ...Nc6.
After this move, Black resigned because of 9. Nxc7+ forcing Black to lose the queen. Personally, I thought that this was a good game to become reacquainted to the opening. Beginners may learn from this game a stable offensive opening and to not make simple mistakes. Advanced players may have had some exposure to the opening after this game. Thanks for your time and I hope you enjoyed this annotation!
error of the game.Gives the queen
I would have first played g6
20. Rd4 was the best way to guard the Pawn. This move just wastes time.
...and White seizes the tactical opportunity.
Oh well. I can win the Knight, so i'll only be down an Exchange. I'll fight on for a bit.
The King&#039;s Gambit. This usually leads to a lively game.
4.exd5 is the choice move here. But...
A position you could easily see coming in your mind before playing 7...Nf6. There is enough in there for you to reject it. White has won back his gambit pawn, the double pawns are on an open file and can be easily attacked. The c7 pawn is getting hit. If it goes the d-pawn is passed and with the Queens off, that matters.
!! - I was attempting to swap off the f2 Rook with Rd2, but this is a waste of time. Or is it? As we shall see, I am a crafty player and this move inviting something spectacular...
Still some difficulties to overcome for White, his King is cut off. Black has an extra piece in play (his King).
See previous note. Black did not want to give this check but he needs the tempo. 29...Re2 allows me to play 30.Rf7 and the two passed connected g and h-pawns will walk home.
Black puts his faith in this f-pawn. But now I have an ace up my sleeve.
!! - Yes! It works. I figured it all out. The a and h-pawns dominate the Rook. If Black declines the Rook, 37…Rxh7 38.Ra5 Ra7 (forced. Note the a-pawn promotes with a CHECK.) 39. gxf4 is a simple win.
I have always like the Reti. 1.Nf3. After making my first move, I noticed a game between Freddy and Joanne, where Freddy states, "In my opinion you should not play this line against anyone above 1950 rating." Get the game in the comment below.<n><n>So now I'm thinking "Should I have played 1.d4 instead?" On one hand I am playing an opening that Freddy suggests I don't play. On the other hand, I do have his game against Joanne as a reference, so maybe I can avoid some of the traps she may have fallen for. I will review and analyze that game before playing further.
1...g5!?<n><n>Upon playing 1.Nf3, I said to Freddy, "Let's play the Reti!"<n><n>He responds, "A good and sound opening, lets make it unsound!". Thus the move 1...g5.<n><n>So I have reviewed the game mentioned in the last move, between Joanne and Freddy. He made the same move here that he made against Joanne. <n><n>According to the Game Database, this is called the Reti (A04), "Herrstroem Gambit", which I have never heard of before. Obviously Freddy is very acquainted with this. Uh-oh! <n><n>So looking up various other references, along with the GK Game Database, I find the gambit is seldom played by most masters. When it's played, they see the need to take that pawn! The GK World Database only has 3 games, all of which include 2.Nxg5. The website 365chess only shows this move in the big database, not the master database. There, 11 out of 14 games have the gambit accepted. Wikipedia, which gives a summary of all the openings and defenses (or so I thought), does not reference this Herrstroem Gambit at all.<n><n>I also feel that the g-pawn will cause me major problems if I don't take it. So in agreement with the masters...
4.g3. On 2nd thought, I am wary of bringing the knight back to f3 too soon as this will take development time. That knight will have moved 3 times, while I have no other furniture moved at all. I know how it is with these Master Mater guys: You give an inch of development, and they take the whole board! So if 4.Nf3 Bg7 or 4.Nf3 Be7 and black is ahead in development, with his king-side almost completely mobilized. Wait a minute, I thought black is supposed to be a half tempo behind...
Preparing for Qc2, Nb3, Bd2 and O-O-O. Most of it never did happen!
I resigned as Freddy advised me of the forced mate threat (Qe2#). Yet I see it is not a forced mate as I have Re1.<n><n>Freedy, it's been a long while since we played and it is not fresh in my mind. I apologize, I was on vacation mode due to work and have not annotated until now. Can you refresh my memory, please? What was the forced mate?<n><n>Thanks a gain for the game, and for taking me way out of my comfort zone! Good Game!
...and completing it.
Seemingly wasting another tempo. The Q-side pieces are still completely undeveloped!
Recapturing, but it won't help.
White is up a Pawn and Black has no good options. With his Q and KB both en prise, he's in a world of hurt.
Napoleon's Opening.  Already a departure from more  'usual' developments, this move has serious drawbacks for the sake of obtaining early pressure against f7.  Of course, my opponent might have been hoping that I didn't know how to deal with such a line.  The problem is that the attack it foreshadows is too easily thwarted (see Black's reply), whilst at the same time the Q takes from the King's knight its most 'natural' square for development.
Striking at the bishop.  Not bad, though it doesn't do a whole lot for White's development.  A good alternative was 5.d3, freeing up all the undeveloped pieces.  Not so good would have been 5.d4? exd4 6.cxd4 Nxd4, menacing f3 and c2.
(?!) Not so good, even though Black has to move a second piece a second time.  Although this costs Black time, White is not profiting very much thereby.  True, White gains some space on the Q-side, but his pawn formation becomes a bit ragged in the process, and his pieces are still at home.
Not bad: preparing to retake on c4, developing the knight with a gain in time.  Although Black didn't really have make this concession, he decided that on balance, to rid himself of his 'off-side' knight it was worth giving White something.  Black will retain a small lead in development.
With a material deficit of -6, White is busted, of course.  Naturally, White fights on.  For the remainder of the game, Black tries to win as efficiently as possible; White tries to throw obstacles in his path.
Completing his development.  Possibly 18...Qg6 was the more accurate, but the text is quite good enough.
With the idea 20.Rae1 Qd3+ 22.Re2 (else 22.Kg1 Qxf3) 22...Rxg2 23.Kxg2 Qxe2+, simplifying (by which is meant, reducing the amount of material on the board, whilst retaining the material edge).
Relatively better was 28.Kg1.  True, it makes practically no difference in this game, since Black had mate in two either way.  But in general when faced with a forcing line, it is usually better for the defender to play the move that will give him the most options after the enemy's reply.  After 28.Kg1 Rf2 White would have had a completely free hand (29.bxa7).  In another game that might have allowed White to turn the tables.  Not here, though...
White has thrown me for a loop with 3. c3. I don't have any chess library to speak of, and this move isn't in what I have. So I'm winging it with the GK DB for now. Edit: Note that now black's knight attacks the white pawn on e4, but if black captures it, say with 4. ... Nxe4?, white replies 5. Qa4+ and 6. Qxe5 and black loses his knight.
OK, down two pieces but up by 4 pawns, 3 of which are passed. Maybe this can still work. Except 20. Bb4? was probably not a good way to start off.
Yeah, I could play this on for 30 or so more moves, but two pawns against two pieces is a losing deal. I have better games to spend my time analyzing. By better, I mean games I'm not throwing away - my opponent played this game very well.
This is a game played with the Reti opening system in which black neglects development and makes an inexplicable opening 14 moves of which 11 are pawn moves.  He then fails to capitalise on some inaccuracies by white and finally overlooks a mate threat by getting greedy for material.
I can't remember whether I had a good reason for playing this move at the time, but looking back it is a pretty appalling move, the queen is on a bad square and relocates in a few moves anyway and she also blocks in the kings bishop
Black has various opportunities to develop one of his knights or his kings bishop. This pawn move is unnecessary (5.Bg5 loses tempo for white although it does create a weakness in black's structure, but 4...Be7 is much better for black)
Simply building up an advantage in development which black seems desperate to hand to me anyway, I have read somewhere (I think in a GK annotation) that the best way to meet unorthodox openings with lots of pawn moves is to develop as quickly as possible.  I have a feeling my opponent was simply trying to throw me out of book, so I think this is the best way to meet that sort of thing. (In any case, I don't really have much opening knowledge except in the Ruy Lopez and, to a lesser extent the Petrov)
development was necessary, but this just allows the knight to be chased, either back home or out to h5 where it will be hastled for a few more moves and become a liability as black tries to get into a middle game.  The bottom line is that this piece should have developed ages ago, but right now the best place for it was e7
I know why I made this move before e5, it was to prevent ...Ng4, but of course ...Ng4 would be poor anyway, so this was basically a wasted move
The best move, now this white pawn is very threatening, especially once the c and d pawns behind it start to roll, black needs to dig himself out of this hole pretty fast
Black is looking to prevent 19.c7 which would queen, however, he is better to play 18...Bxf3 and allow 19.c7 Bxe4 20.cxd8Q  Kxd8 where black is losing but white has lost both his knights and his attack is at an end
Forced, looks like it is disrupting the white attack, but not so, it can continue with the queen, advanced pawns and other pieces which white has at his disposal
This looks greedy considering black is still under heavy attack, but what else is there?  20...Rd8 and 20...Ra7 are possibilities but they aren't really any better than the text move which gains material compensation for the black queen
Thanks to peteywheatstraw for the game.  Although it was very unconventional gameplay, it gave rise to plenty complications and tactics and also some lessons.<n>1)Develop, pawns can't win games on their own<n>2)Meet unorthodox openings with development<n>3)Capitalise on your opponent's mistakes<n>4)Don't get greedy for material, especially if your king is under attack
I started the Scandinavian Defense here.  I wanted to give it a go, a good test, to see if I can get a good game out of it.
Here, I castled.  It's becoming an interesting game.
Playing this after Bb5, rather than immediately means black can't immediately retake on d5 with his queen after the exchange of bishops.
? A rather strange move. taking on e3 wins back a piece and while white still has an uncomfortably placed king, black's attack will likely not pull through completely without the extra knight, which means black will eventually have to make some sort of retreating move with his rook, handing back the initiative to white. It still doesn't look great, but certainly better than being several pieces down.
If you are thinking Sicilian you would be wrong this game transposes into a French advanced hybrid.
I have a very small positional advantage due to my pieces sitting on their currently most optimal squares. Also white has doubled pawns on the e-file which become problematic later on.
Both sides continue to methodical development of pieces.
white has good pressure on b5 so it is important that I take care of the weakness. Besides clearing the c-file for my rook it does prevent the immediate b4-b5. The trade off is that I have a poor knight.
This retains the bishop and keeps the white rook pinned to the defense of e3.
White so far has managed to maintain the balance in the position but things are about to change quickly. My goal is to slowly improve my piece development without creating further weakness in my position. While at the same time hoping for white to overextend himself somehow.
!? this allows me to neutralize some of white's pressure on the queen side while getting rid of my useless knight.
The game down a lot at this point. It was here that my opponent offered a draw. However, I decline because I hope to slowly outplay my opponent.
The queen exchange lessens the threat of mate for the time being.
With the two pawn advantage and bishop pair black wins easily
White plays the advanced variation. complicating Blacks development.
An attempt to stifle Whites King side development and  get the black Bishop out.
Pow! A nose punch. Time to wake-up. Black becomes very aggressive going after White's king side before White can take advantage of his superior development. Timing and speed become critical in this bout.
WATCH ME PLAY STUPIDLY!  I play this about half the time
White has mate if black gives me a turn...
[DK] f4 looks really interesting and supports my tact of building a dominating central pawn wall. It further delays development though and it blocks the c-h diagonal, ruling out a near-term Bh6, so I'm going to stick with this simple development. Actually, I thought we were "out of the opening", but I just consulted the MCO and it looks like this is the standard line which runs very very deep...
Didn't see Qxb2...
I am annotating this game for Zhanna - Zhannetka-84. This opening move, 1. d4 is fine. I usually play it myself!
Black breaks the symmetry!
But this is a good check, as it is hard to attack the white queen while it is on h5
This is good, as it opens up the g file for white to attack down.
White takes the queen, an excellent move!
Black takes the rook.
This is good, picking up a pawn.
This move saves the e pawn.
and this move saves the d pawn.
This is a great move, reducing White's material deficit.
It is not a bad idea to check black. The last white pawn is doomed. However the position should be drawn.
But white had cleverly spotted that if he takes the bishop, the final position is a stalemate. many thanks for reading this. I hope you enjoyed it. Please leave a comment or two and rate it on the star system.
I came across this website "Sparkchess" [www.sparkchess.com] which allows a game at four different levels, without having to download anything. It's good fun: The levels are 'Beginner'; 'Casual'; 'Advanced' and 'Guru' - although it warns that the higher level takes some time to make its moves. <n>Players can judge its standard from the following game at the second highest level.
But this is also very strong - and more in the  'coffee-house' style.
Keeps all the pieces on the board.
London opening
initiate it myself
queens finally in the game
black sees it
whilst winning an extra pawn & a bishop - black resigned
A regular Ruy Lopez opening
This move is not the most commonly played move, but it works out just fine, I think
Black ignores the potential d5 break and continues development
!? A surprising move, but I saw the point of it; White has doubled pawns, but their presence in the centre of the board can be seen
but White sets up a tactical trick of his own!
? Black misses the trick - 24.Rxf6 Qxf6 25.Qxg6, and it starts to look a little desperate for Black... 23.Qg8 would be the move to make here.
but White is not done with his own threats yet!  here, White threatens 26.e5! winning the rook (or just the exchange, but 3 points down is not good!)
But I was actually happy for the exchange! The reason for that is simple; it opens up lines for my pieces to put pressure on White's king.
!! but this move just brings everything crashing down to the ground! The exchange of the rook and queen is forced, and Black has nothing. Here I resigned. So what makes this game so interesting to me? there are two things; 1) Despite the material defect, Black was the one putting the pressure on White, and White had to respond to Black's threats quite a few times. [Question: is that keeping the initiative?] 2) As I played through the games, I honestly thought that I could pull off a surprise win, until White's final move (and that win would have been my highest on Gameknot). Still, it was a great game - thanks very much to my opponent! :)
This is the French Defense starting position. A future move for black is d5. From what I've read and experienced, this defends the a2-g8 diagonal and reduces the f7 pawn weakness. However, it also blocks the black LSB. So in a sense, moves the weakness to the back row. A better player would probably know how to exploit this weakness, but I am not yet that experienced.
He takes the pawn. While I wanted him to do this, it always concerns me when a higher level player does exactly what you expect. It probably means I missed something.
Well, I didn't see that coming. After reviewing this for quite a while, it appears I won't be able to castle in this game at all. I don't see anyway to interpose a piece and I certainly am not castling kingside. Having the black rook and queen in this configuration really I really miss my DSB. In fact, now that I'm looking at the pawn configuration, I REALLY miss my DSB. Don't think the pesky knight was worth it.
I think black will take the knight and that ends up with me losing my e pawn. I would say "I'll pick it up later", but we'll see how that will work out later. Good news is, I think my pawns in the center will be in good shape.
Lost my pawn.. but this leaves black with a couple of unsupported pawns in the center. I am -2 now, which is not good, but there are two currently unsupported black pawns hanging out in the center. The other thing I notice is there is a serious pawn imbalance on my kingside. I now turn my attention to "picking them up." I also not black's queenside pieces are undeveloped.
King flexes his muscles on a pawn now. I don't see how black can immediately push the king around and now he needs to move to defend the pawn. This gives me the initiative, just not sure how long I can maintain. I expect 12...f5. I have a couple of things I can play 13. Bg2 seems the most straightforward or a two move knight play e2-f4... but will have to see how black responds first.
Tempted to check, but I really don't want to give black reason to develop queen side. Many moves from here, I see a potential fork at c7. I know odds of actually achieving this are remote given my opponents expertise, but it was fun on the analysis board. My only advantage is he may underestimate me.
...and so it ends, but at least I achieved one of my goals.
Thanks very much stalhandske for the game. I'd like to think you were concerned when the King did his crazy-eyed-running-with-his-hands-up attack, but nevertheless I enjoyed it very much. I would appreciate any feedback anyone would like to provide.
Here's a strange game that I won despite a series of blunders that deserved to lose.  Fortunately my opponent had already ceded plenty of material.  It's hardly a game "worthy of publication" but it does show the value of perseverance :-)  As it's a team game, we must have had similar ratings at the start, and my opponent won with White.  My rating has only recently shot up as a result of several fast ladder games against low-rated opponents, so don't expect my play to be commensurate with my current lofty rating.
Now, with two extra pawns and the exchange it ought to be plain sailing for White.  I know several players who would resign in Black's position but his dogged persistence nearly scrapes a draw.
Black blockades
kamikaze rook at least takes a pawn with it
Now I hope to force home one of my pawns while Black's attention is divided
I don't.
I'm just pushin wood around.  I know I'm not in a good spot and this is costing me development of my own pieces, but I'm playing a superior opponent so I have to do things to take him out of his game.
The logical next step for Dave.  He's gaining a real advantage on me at this point.
I retreat.  It was fun while it lasted.
Before dave made this move, he told me he was going to 'school' me on how to break up my pawn structure.  He hadn't factored in my queen.  He may have been aware of her when he lost the first bishop, but he wasnt aware on this one.  At this point I've lost both knights, but the tradeoff for both his bishops would be huge for me.   Still it smells of a trap.  I hate jumping on a piece when it looks like I'm supposed to do it.
I decided to pressure his queen.  I felt I had his black square bishop if I wanted it.  I'm sure this isn't a 'book' move, but throwing Dave off his game is the only way I can gain advantage.
This is when I knew Dave's attack wasn't the best put together.
Getting my queen out early turned out to be the smartest move I've made in this game.
This is probably the most comfortably I've ever owned the center of a chess game against Dave.  He has no bishops, and even though I'm down a material point, I sure don't feel like it.  I remind him of his 12. Bxa3 move that was going to wreck me.  I laugh.  I tell him thats what he gets for being an asshat.
I'm grinning at this point.  I don't usually feel in control much during a match with a superior opponent, but here I do.  Dave calls me a queen hater.  I call him an asshat.
so I think it's my turn.  I fully expected a g6.
I'm all up in Dave's bidness at this point.  I'm calling him names and insulting his king (his king was a real asshat in this game.)
His queen knows it.
see?
This was a good move, It frustrated me.
Nows when I was wishing I hadn't pushed his queen.  I'd have him mated.
A lesser man would have resigned here.
I have so many people I want to thank for this victory....<n><n><n><n><n>Actually no I don't.  I did it by capitalizing on Dave's mistakes.  Thats about the only way I can beat a player THAT superior to me.  He made the mistake early on and I didn't make mine until it was too late for him to do anything about it.  My little diatribe hasn't done this game the justice that it deserves, as annotating doesn't show the comments left at the top of the page, nor the instant messages that added the real flavor for the match.  Think of it in "Down goes Frazier!!" terms, and I hope you've enjoyed! =)
standard opening
white is lost
i almost resigned but i stayed because it was 5 on 4
?! dubious defense
?! dubious move, hoping for Nxh4 ... Qxh4
Black resigned, but in this position, White can play 26. Rxe6+ Kxf8 27. Qh8#
5.Bb5?! First move out of book.  I was not prepared for this move.  Does White want to trade the versatile knight in this closed position for his strong light bishop which normally goes on the d3 square?  Only about a dozen players over 2100 have played this move.  Definitely some advantage for black now.  Two best responses are block pin with Bd7 or continue with thematic Qb6 earlier than normal.  I chose Qb6 thinking it would force the trade or bring more play to the queenside where I have a space advantage.  I thought the line would progress 5...Qb6 6.Bxc6+ bxc6 with my side pawn toward the center which would soon continue to pressure d4.
? Owens Defence. This is an old defence which is now considered dubious. This obviously prepares to fianchetto the light squared bishop. This move is still however popular against the English(1.c4) where it is far more effective. An early fianchetto by Black shows a willingness to defend against a big pawn center, picking away at it from the wings. In ceding so much territory, Black must be on constant guard against direct attacks on the King, as this game illustrates :)
!This move tries to undermine the center at the expense of the pawn, but this move also undermines the safety of his own king as you will see, because he is opening the dangerous h5-e8 daigonal.
Oh no Greco has fallen for this childish trap or has NN just fallen for a silly trap? You'll see.
It is interesting that hundreds of years after this game was played, all of the moves so far are still actually considered "book." If you weren't aware of the date, you might believe that this game was from the Hypermodern movement of the early 20th century.
Checkmate! A beautiful queen sacrifice. Go Greco! Absolutely great! This is an instructive game espeially for beginner playing stronger players " If you see that your opponent is offering you a piece for what seems like nothing check it and then check it again, don't grab, don't be materialistic!" I hope you liked this game. I'm happy for positive and negative feedback aslong as its constructive criticism! and feel free to leave comments. One thing I would like you to do is before you rate this game please think honestly and think how I can improve on it and leave comments and PM me with them. Don't just give one and a half stars and not tell me why.<n>Thanks<n>Tom
I am playing in this thematic tournament, the opening is King Gambit Decline, Mafia Defense. I never heard this variation, new experiences!
The variation in question
I was thinking in 3 Qf3, attacking d5 (weak square). But I choice for this game make a normal development.
Unexpected. I  think Kh7 is a better choice
This move was unexpected for me.
Now, I do not see defense for black.
black knows his c4 pawn is his trump and wants to prove it.so he tries another option
2 rooks on the seventh rank is every player's dream...see how black  manoeuvre his heavy pieces....whereas white double rooks have not achieve much...again see how the g3 pawn has revealed white's camp weakness..
the exchange of queens means white has lost....the rest is just technique...
And this move does not give you any advantages. Actually it stops your upgrading.
This is a small move. But after this move, you can win the game easily. Because, as i said at start: if you dont upgrade your pieces, that means, you have not pieces...
Because he lost his queen at start of game.. Than he resigned..
Hi everyone!<n><n>In my penultimate annotated game against untateve I was talking about regaining some of the lost points from the low draw because I had some favourable games in my active games list which I was hoping to convert.  Here is one of them.  After yesterday's "nightmare" against the Master Mater (although let it be said, from all your kind comments the reason I lost that game was because although I had the right ideas I wasted a tempo early on by forking Freddy's Q + R on c7 and it was enough to cost me the game - so it seemed my performance was FAR FROM BEING HORSE DUNG!) it was nice to wake up to a white flag.   In this game I find myself in a closed Ruy Lopez and become passive and find myself facing a mating attack.  My opponent once had a rating in the 1600s before he suffered from some timeouts and for a long time in the game he played to that level.  But in pressing his mating attack he made a big oversight.  Here is how the story unfolds.  My opponent kicks off with 1.e4.
3. Bb5 - this is the move which characterises the Ruy Lopez.  Kasparov calls it the Spanish Torture.
4. ...... Nf6 - the main line - development, development, development.
13. axb3 - another N for B trade.  The downside is that it opens the a file and ties a piece down to defending the pawn on a6.  It does however double up pawns on the b column and relieve the pressure on f7.
22. Nh6 - I expected this but calculated for it.  This will result in a queen trade and after the knight takes Glenda on f7 my rook will snaffle it and white will be relieved of a piece.  It makes me look like The Artful Doger here!
This seems actually a mistake, since it seems possible for black to go Bf5 now, based on the weakness of b2 (Qxb2 and the rook is lost). <n>BUT for Qc1# by white. Black can't take the rook at once, but has white compensation for it?<n>I'm sure theory says a lot from this, but I don't read books, so I don't know. I appreciate some help...
This is another story...
My turn to press him. My rook is undefended, but also is his, and I'm taking it with check...
It was interesting g4, sac a pawn in order to penetrate: g4, Nxg4, Nd7!, or g4, Bxg4, NxB, NxN, Bd6, Rmoves, Bc5, Qmoves, BxNc6, anything takes, Bxa7 or . A very tricky way to mix up the game, I should have tried it. But I dind't see it during the game.
Let's see if this can compensate.
Two central pawns, one passed, one more. This should be enough to win, so I messed it up somewhere, but I can't see where.
12. Nh5!, good move, eliminating the threat on the Black's king side
White continues his brutal attack.  Is it sound?  The more important question is how do you defend against it at 30 moves in an hour.
10 moves or so too late, Black attempts to open the Q-side, but the problems remain.  He's played ...b5.  So what?
Black's counter-play is too far behind.  c4 won't fall in time and White isn't interested in heading for an endgame.    Better might be 27. ...Ra7, defending the Bg7.
If White plays 29. exd5, Black has just enough time to defend, but a little zwischenzug from White nails it down.
INCREDIBLE! White is Black! It's the reverse Michael Jackson Opening.<n>Júpiter makes an incredible naughty move, making Baco start thinking about racism.
There it is! The queen is Wonderfull! The game now has transposed to a very wide known variation of "the Greco Way of life Defense".
Baco is know throwing beer on some girls t-shirts while he has fun with his majestic and dog-like Staff that he uses to make the girls happier with his magical powers. "The game seems won for me", says baco while he performs acts of disputable reputation on his new met friends.
Pain. Suffering. In the clash of titans, it seems that jupiter is dead. Lets pray for a miracle.
So in this move Jupiter sees Bacos main weakness: his hoes. He prepares than an attack that would hardly harm anyone.
This move makes the game crazy. Black is winning the game after understanding many socially relevant things about the usage of deformed bacons as ways to become friends with your neighboors cat.
Jupiter is mad and angry. Baco was twisting the nature of the situation with his mischiveous ways, but now he played the move that was later on considered the most brave move in the history of chess.
now baco has a headache, he drank too much and the situation is unclear. especially about his stomach.
Baco resigns, the game now is a living proof of the blunders some fanfarronistics friends have made when playing against each other in the skys of ancient greece.
This or 3. ... c5 are the most common; a matter of taste for black really.
?!   Better was 19. ... Rf7, but I just drop another piece into the attack wth 20. Ng4.   The text see Black lose one of his defenders.   My queen has the g5 square as well, and I've more pieces to follow up the knight I've lost, whereas black's minor pieces aren't contributing to their king's defence.
And black resigned in light of 24. ... Rxf6 25. Bxf6 Qe7 (which just prolongs mate by one move) 26. Qh8+ Kf7 27. Qg7+ Ke8 28. Qxe7#
A brilliant move! A familiar theme, with the twist that Black has greater development than usual when the classic queen sacrifice is used.
Now, you may well think that this game is cmposed. Especially when my source for the game indicated it was dedicated by Mr. Wellmuth to the late Perrier. The sparkling gem was created in the middle of a World War, when there wasn't time or opportunity serious tournament play, and I'll admit the the other offerings fro that year didn't impress me enough to set this aside, and besides, it doesn't seem to be well known. Actually, it isn't all that complicated, just long. Notice how few branches had to be calculated. A very short computer analysis found the move, but concluded that Black might gain a slight advantage. Of course an exhaustive search would have led the program to the correct conclusion. Even after looking just 7 movesahead, White gained advantage.
black takes the chance and activates his bishop. with it on d4, things will not look that bleak .
taking a pawn with Bxc3 and Nf3 is shallow. white can exchange the bishops with Bg4, with better position. the only chance for black is to encourage his opponent in going forward with his bad idea of playing f2-f3. honestly, it looks bad for white, so there was some calculation involved. g3 seems like a good idea. Bd3 is also a plan. all in all, black has just a few threats, possibly not enough to equalise and he needs some sort of cooperation to make it happen. white, on the other hand, has played superficial the last couple of moves, and is still unaware of the fact that he has to be precise in defence for a while before claiming the win.
See?
Hi everyone!<n><n>I hope you enjoyed my previous annotation of The Master Mater at work.  He is at it again in this game against yours truly.  I end up exchanging bishop for knight to bust up his pawn structure.  Yes, and I also get rid of his marauding horsies.  I felt that inflicting a break up of Freddy's pawn structure would stand me in good stead in the endgame where Freddy is pretty strong.  But, although I was out of the opening, there was the middle game to play.  Boy, didn't Freddy make full use of that g file. Funny, Freddy's opponent had the g file to play with and got nowhere, in fact Freddy made use of it.  I can only say that it is because Freddy was so much better developed than NN when the g file was opened that his attack was so successful.  I kick off with d4 for a change as I do play e4 quite frequently.
27. ...... Bxh3 - steals a pawn due to the pin on my rook on g1.  True the rook on g1 is twice defended, but Glenda is too high a value for this task.  The worst part of this pawn loss is that those h pawns of Freddy's suddenly become dangerous!
36. Kg1 - no choice here, double check.
37. ....... g1/Q+ - Freddy has the pleasure of getting two queens.
So this is a game I faced the Morra Gambit, against which I had had very poor score in Blitz games. People don't play it too often here, since altough it is full of traps and zaps for black and gives him lot to think about, it is most probably a little unsound.
This is the Gambit. White gets a tempo, open lines and space advantage for the price of pawn.
Accepting the gambit is the most natural and critical reply.
White has to get agressive to show he have something for the pawn.
I'm not sure about this move in positional basis, as it's not clear yet where the queen belongs. I'd probably play 8.Be3 black has stepped out of the option of ...Ng4 and e-pawn is under no pressure.
Black sees that there is no obviously good squares for the dark squared bishop, so he decides to trade of white's bishop, make room for the light squared bishop and double white's pawns, trying to later prove them as weaknesses. Later in the game we'll see that altough doubled, black has no queenside pawn majority, so the doubled pawns are maybe not so weak. This is probably what white expected when playing 8.Qe2, as the queens rook may be active on his original square after eventual hxg3.
This was whites idea, but while it works tactically, it fails positionally. White should have tried to show that the rook does nothing on e3 and try to drive it aways from there or prevent Kg6-h5-g4.
Revenge Mark 2<n><n>Another one who gave me a good smack in our first game, so very satisfying to get some small measure of revenge.
Now its an interesting game. I'm very used to equal/equalish positions, but this is summat of a novelty. Still with 4 pawns I should be able to force the win...I hope.
Now I'd wanted for the sake of elegance to finish it with queen and knight. But I'm not elegant. And when I try working it out on analyser I kept stalemating. So I chickened, trapped the king in a repeat cycle and went got the other queen.
Solid, simple. Interesting to mention here is the existence of the sharp Urusov gambit 3. d4.
!? Offering a bishop exchange with the idea of opening the f-file (my favourite file ;-)) and strengthening the centre with another pawn.
Interestingly enough, Black accepts the offer. I would have expected ...Bb6, himself offering an exchange again for opening the a-file.
Completes piece development
I was wondering why Black, already behind in development, is wasting time with another pawn move. Not thinking further about it, I quickly...
I decided for not caring about a lost pawn, as Black loses only more time with this and even opens me another file. It isn't healthy to go for pawn-eating with the queen in the early development stage, is an important rule in chess, why should the opponent be able to break this rule? The rooks are already connected and development is completed, it takes Black at least three more moves to achieve this! The other option would have been Qc1 which defends both pawns, but then ...Ng4 Re1 results in a cramped position.
This bishop has reached it's dream spot and will not move anymore for the rest of the game ;-)<n>Bxf7+ was very tempting at this point, following with e5 and using the open f-file, but I wasn't sure if it would really work out.
Occupying the file with tempo, as this threatens the simple Bxf7+ following a queen loss for white.
Having this clear advantage in material (2 pawns and 2 pieces for a rook), plus a passed pawn on the 7th rank which can't be eliminated without further loss of material, Whites win is ensured.
And Black resigned.
I played d6 with a hope of less dangerous game.
Development of the pieces.
And here i made a terrible mistake.To avoid attack of the rook on g file, i lost my queen.
It says the pieces are equal.
it is not so difficult to mate with an extra castle and two extra pawns so my oppent resigns here.
An adventure in the main line of the 9.Bc4 Yugoslav, the Soltis Variation. It is a typical Dragon encounter, which is to say pawn storms rage on both flanks and Black sacs the Exchange for attacking chances (but not on c3!).
The main idea of the Soltis variation. It seems odd that Black spends time shuffling kingside pawns, but it turns out that the h-pawn advance usefully hinders White's attack, buying Black valuable time on the queenside.
This funny move is actually a main line. White decides not to jump in with Bh6 immediately, opting instead to pester Black along the dark squares and threaten a defender of crucial g4 and d5 squares. There is no immediate threat of Bxf6, but it looms as White 'slows down' and improves his position.
the White king is safer on the light-square b1. This move is a key idea for White; much as ...h5 frustrates White's kingside efforts, Kb1 can cost Black crucial tempi on the queenside (in particular, the queen can no longer reach a3 with check. This looks far fetched now, but in many ... Rxc3 lines it is a main thrust for Black).
The best move for White, who is fighting for the initiative in a slightly worse position.
Alternative variation: [Far more spirited is] 19. exd6 f6 20. Ndxb5 e6 [with a wild game, as ...Rxc3 and ...fxg5 loom while the White queen can easily swing to h2 after ...fxg5 hxg5 and the whole position is a mess! (though Black retains better chances)]
I find it diff icult to believe in this move. Even as the e7 pawn is such a crutch in the Black position (e.g. now d6 is weak and White's pressure on the d-file threatens), Black has a dangerous attack and this move does nothing to help things on either flank. In any case, the computer favors this move and it seems to work out practical equality if White walks a precipice of tactics.
This turns out to be a mistake. Often it makes sense to decline material when facing a dangerous attack, but sometimes declining a sacrifice is even more dangerous than accepting one! In this case, Black keeps material equality for now and reorganizes on the queenside under favorable circumstances.<n>Alternative variation: [ It turns out that] 21. Bxf8 [works, as] Bxf8 22. Nxb5 Qxb5 23. exd6 Bg7 24. c3 Rc8 25. Rhe1 [lead to an approximately equal position where Black's active minor pieces and queenside pressure (not to mention the g4 pawn) compensate for White's central pressure and powerful d6 pawn. The game would remain razor sharp.]
Now White acquiesces. There was not anything else - allowing the rook to swing onto the queenside is fatal.<n>Alternative variation: 22. Qxd6 Rfc8 23. Rd5 (23. c3 Rxc3) 23... Qb7 24. Rc1 Ng3 [and White is completely lost. The Black knight will move to f5, e4, or e2 with decisive effect while White's pieces are tangled and he is out of moves.]
! - Black keeps his bishop on the long diagonal, anticipating an opening and forcing White to hold off creating passed pawn counterplay via exd6 owing to ... Qxb2#
A devastating decision. White's d-file pressure somewhat intimidating, but ultimately it is superfluous. Black nabs material without any drawbacks.
The g-pawn advance wins on the spot. White cannot hope to stop the pawn and hold the game, as Black's 2 minor pieces allow him to protect the pawn and go hunting for straggling White pawns on the kingside while White is tied up. There is no defense. 0-1.
Oops. Lost my bishop.
White doesn't see that the queen is in danger.
This was one of my first and probably the shortest game I have played (so far) in the Walking the Walk & Learning to Run Welcome MT 11<n><n>I think it can best be described as a painful reminder of what can go wrong in a game
This is one of those moves that at the time I thought was fairly innocuous, however it is anything but.
This is where we vary from the Gameknot database which only has h4 as an option. Although I was suspicious of this as an unusual move I couldn't see what was to come. In fact this move serves two purposes, firstly it keeps the d1 h5 diagonal clear for the queen and secondly it threatens the rather nasty Ng5
What you'll see more often is 8...Nb4, a more defensive move than what Black plays: 8....Nd4, attacking the queen on f3 and the pawn on c2. By not reinforcing his other knight on d5, it becomes a sore square that White can immediatly cease with any three of his attacking peices.  Black's position is getting weaker with every forceful move he makes.  White is simply allowing Black to turn his own forward momentum against himself.
White takes with 9. Bxd5+.Black only has one piece developed on the board compared with White's three pieces actively in the game.  White's pawn structure is still solid and unscathed.  Black has a very weak e5 square that White can manipulate. There's just not enough hiding places for Black's king; he's abit stuck in the middle of the board being drawn further into White's territory.
With 12....Kd5, Black's king seems to be on his last leg. His king has moved all over the board which lost quite a bit of tempo.  Soon as the queens come off the board, the tables turn on White when Black's king goes on to become a powerful attacking piece.
So there you have it.  There's several different variations you can explore on your own.  It's always good to be prepared for the tricks and traps of this opening, so you will know exactly how to play this variation.
One of my favorite openings. It's flexible and usually gives White the Q-side spatial advantage.
Strengthening the center and preparing to castle Q-side. With the K-side development so fouled up, he has little choice.
I begin making preparations for a Q-side attack, since Black will be forced to put his K on that side of the board.
A mistake. This piece should have stayed on the Q-side to guard the King. 10...N-N1! was the proper move. This would also strengthen the QB3 square, in preparation for ...P-QB3, sealing off the QB file as an avenue of attack.
I double on the QB file, with the intent to weaken the Q-side Pawns... and an ancillary threat of mate, which I didn't think he'd overlook.
Jäi see lihtne repliik Volodinil kahe silma vahele?
5. exd4 - a plethora of exchanges leaves Ion with an isolated queen pawn.  Can I exploit this?  We shall see.
9. Bxb3 - queen trade.  At least the threat on f7 has now disappeared but Ion has a lead in development.  I need to clear the decks fast!
11. ...... fxe6 - this bishop trade now leaves me with an isolani.  However, at least one of Ion's active pieces is no more.
Here is a short English Attack in the Sicilian, when Black adopts a true Najdorf setup with ...e5.  The action gets going quickly out of the opening with an opposite side castling situation and direct attacks against the kings.  Note:  As usual, my annotations assume some prior knowledge of chess, therefore, you won't find me annotating a move like 2...c5, or 3. d4.  My annotations are not for the rank beginner.  Thanks!
The Najdorf Sicilian was first played in 1937 Warsaw in Steiner-Najdorf and resulted in a victory for Black.  The variation employed in that particular game is now referred to as the Schveningen-Najdorf, as it features an early ...e6.  The variation with ...e5, was first played in 1942 by Karel Opocensky.  Najdorf would not take up the line with any regularity until 1955.
After I played this move, I checked the database to see how popular this move was, and it turns out that this move is relatively rare.  Only 17 games in the Chessbase Database.  Opening the g-file seems quite an important factor in the attack against the Black king.
Black throws his last remaining foot soldier at my king position.  Black's attack is not dangerous.  White's, however, is just gaining speed.
Black is faced with disasterous material losses.
Black must return the piece to clear the 7-th rank for defense, but this overloads the queen and the bishop on c4 drops.
Too many jobs for the queen.
Thanks to my opponent for the interesting game!!!
This move is just about White's automatic response to Black's central aggression, and indicates White's readiness to go toe-to-toe with his opponent.  Also feasible were 5.Nb3 and 5.Nf3, but neither places any pressure on Black.  The text move immediately tries to exploit Black's weaknesses on the d-file.
(?)  In general, moving a piece twice in the opening is not a good idea 'unless there is a tactic'.  On the other hand, White's knight has moved 3 times already, and will soon have to make a 4th.  But given the strategic risk inherent in Black's choice of line, perhaps more celerity in development is called for.  Indicated (and usual) is 5...d6, solidifying the centre, and freeing the light-square bishop (LSB), and gearing up for Q-side expansion within a few moves.
(?!) 'Knights before Bishops' quoth GM Lasker.  But circumstances alter cases.  At the moment, White's small advanced guard is imposing a little bit of a crimp in Black's game.  One way to free this is to enquire of White if he is interested in exchanging Queens: 7...Qa5ch  8.Bd2 Qc5.  After 9.Qxc5 Bxc5, Black will have at least have caught up in the race for mobilization (development).  The Queen exchange itself would be justified by its effect in freeing Black's game.  Meanwhile...
(??) Black hadn't seen it either!  Well, this sort of mutual oversight is not unknown even among grandmasters, but all the same, one wonders what Black had in mind for the Queen check.  Bearing in mind that the move played is a poor second best, it still made a lot of sense to prevent the further break-up of Black's pawns after Bxf6.  Of course, ...QxB would have served the same function.
Gotcha!! (I've always rather hated that headline in the British Press, but it works here).  Not only does this pick up a piece, free, gratis and for nothing; it threatens ...Qxg2 and ...Qc1ch.  Fortunately White can escape with a developing move...
(?!) The GK engine much prefers 15...Be6, here, and I'm inclined to agree (I don't always).  For one thing, if White exchanges bishops (he has little other option), Black find his f-file opened for the Rook(s).  However, this pawn advance does secure the DSB's tenure of the a7-g1 diagonal, and its pressure on f2.
(?) The obvious move - a product of panic, maybe?  But now Black wins the f2-pawn, and retains exclusive and unchallengeable tenure of the a7-g1 diagonal.  White has almost no play available, neither for counter-attack, nor for defence.
(?) An oversight?  A sporting form of resignation?  Whatever; the game ends now.
Probably one of the my strongest move in the game.
No I have a rook against a bishop and I have an extra pawn. Can't believe I survived this one. I thick my resilience got him tired.
White ends up castling King's Side anyways. This is probably correct because it is much easier for white to launch an attack on White's queen side than on his king side right now.
Black has already started assaulting the queen side in hopes of gaining material.
The advance of the pawn happened anyway. This limits the white queen for the time being and puts pressure on the queen's side.
Black gains control of the open b file with this move.
advancing the two past pawns will be the key to the game for black.
Threats of Qe4 forcing a trade of queens.
Allows white to win a pawn in exchange for a queen trade. In this situation A queen trade is bad for white as it will become hard for him to deal with two past pawns with only a rook.
Playing for a positional affair.
The Black Q is in trouble.
A typical Gameknot move, avoiding most of the book lines, but I've developed my own repertoire against it by now.
Normally a good developing move for White, supporting a subsequent p-d4, and providing an outlet for the Q on the d1-a4 diagonal, this move in this position deprives the Nb1 of its best square and fails to support the pawn on e5.
releasing the q-side minor pieces but already inhibited by Black's pressure on d4
Those of you who know my playing style will know that I always try if I can to establish a pawn in my opponent's side of the board. I have recently had several shocks when I failed to effectively back up my pawn formation and the whole lot has crashed down around my ears, so I am trying to be careful when doing this. However, my central pawn formation looks strong enough to hold here.
An irritating setback, but sets the scene for a beautiful sacrifice and checkmate. Can you see it?
Black pursues to play on the half-open c-file and show that white has lost too much time with the manoeuvre Bf1-c4-b3xc4.<n><n>12...b5 might be objectively stronger. Black intends to advance the queenside pawns and start an attack. Nothing deep in planning here, but those races are known to be quite hair-raising.
Black lost on time. I was about to move ...Re6 but hadn't the time to analyze 36.Bg7 (Kxg7 37. Qd1 Qg2  38.Ka3 Ra6 39.Kb4 Rb6  was the mainline - black keeps his pawn). I think I won't forgive myself for spoiling a game like this with a blunder like this!<n><n>Other possibility that I looked was Qc6 with the idea of Qc7. There was, however, 36.Na5 with complications. I must say that I'm not too happy with myself landing in this position, where white has the better bishop and some activity for the modest price of a pawn. I'd like to have some open analysis for this position, too!
I opened with the Reti, which my opponent claimed was his least favorite opening.  However, Black can usually transpose to many different lines.
He was probably hoping for a Queen's Pawn transposition, but I won't give it to him.
Black gets his "Battle Donkey" in the mix.  Battle Donkey is a copyrighted phrase by fredmcgriff, so I'll have to pay him a royalty now, which is unfair because he has a lot of money and I don't.
I think this was the key move for me.  I was expecting his next move to be cxd4, so this move was to deter Qc7, which ironically gets played later and proves this move to be sound.
And Black resigned.  Possible continuations are Qxf1 , 20. Rxf1 Bd5 21. Nh7  Kg8 22. Qg7#; Thanks to my opponent for being a good sport.
This game is an exciting game all the way through which I played against mwgr. You never know which twist is going to take place next!
I have created a passed pawn, exploiting my opponent's blocked pawn formation.
I should have seen this. My opponent can win much material this way.
At least my opponent's knight is trapped...
I offered my opponent a draw, and he accepted. He was worried about my passed pawn, and I was worried about his material advantage and strong pawn formation.
Sicilian Defense
This again puts two pieces in trouble for white.
Don't think so!
When behind in material and you trade pieces it makes for more of a difference in compareable strenghts. Say 11 vs 13 is better than 8 vs 6. The fewer pieces the least trouble you can generally make for your opponent.
This gives white a won game. I would prefer Nf4 as the two knights can be troublesome at times. Again trading pieces makes the difference more noticable.
The Reti opening
Black has a comfortable position.
Black at least wins a pawn.I pretty much calculated this ahead of time.
A discovered attack on the queen that wins the b-pawn for good.
Notice how the knights become an escort for Black's passed a pawn
I am putting this on for advice and comments from better players. I always play e4 opening but so far I have struggle with the Sicilian defence. Any tips are welcome
So far, the main line
I protect my e4 pawn.<n>This is a very intriguing position to my inexperienced eyes, what is the strategy for White from here? King side attack or Queen side? Castle King side or Queen side?
I move my Queen to prepare for a Queen side castle. The idea at this stage is to attack Black's king side with pawns to open up the king's cover. Black's Queen side still had all pieces firmly hemmed in so he had to castle king side. Question: Is this the best position for White's Queen against the Sicilian defence? It would be good to discover a square similar to d6 for the Black Queen in the Caro Kann defence. Any thougths are welcome
Good move from black, getting a firm grip on the b file
I should not played b2-b4. Short term it is good as it stops the mating threat, but long term I have weakened my king's defences. In hindsight, I should have payed Na4, protecting the b2 pawn and attacking Black's queen. The queen must have moved and I would have traded a pawn for a bishop. Thougths?
Black takes his bishop out, but now I am in a weaker position and I know it...
In my mind, this is the big moment in the game where Black has taken a decisive advantage but gaining time, I had to take the pawn and Black would have my DSB
Not good. And my queen is in the line of fire of the Bishop
I hoping for an overshight when I could attack Black's light squared bishop with check...
Black is hoping for Ke2 when he would reply Nf4 forking queen and king. Ke2 does not work either as Black would play Bc3+
Black is having a ball
This was a standard game between two lowish-ranked players (although this was my first game, so my rank may not be representative). I (fish613, playing black) annotated this game not because it's a stunning game, although it does exemplify how strategic advantages can be thrown away with tactical mistakes, but simply because I wanted to develop my own thoughts and thinking process further. Comments are welcome - I'm sure I've missed a lot.
Hence 4 dxe5 Nxe4. 3... d6 is an alternative but blocks the bishop. 3... exd4 4 Nxd4 Nxd4 5 Qxd4 is equal on material but white has an iron grip on the centre.
At this point white has a very powerful centre, and is ahead on development.
Forces the exchange and weakens the black queen-side pawns after the next move.
? The white queen has left her defence of the white king, and some interesting tactical opportunities for black are available. Black has 3 lines of attack, two of which are fairly unpromising but the third can easily lead to mate if white does not take care. The unpromising lines are Rh5  and Qh6 . Black played Qf4 .
23 g3 Qxf2  24 Kh1 Re1  25 Bf1 Rxf1#, 24 Kh3 Rh5 25 Kg4 Qf5#; 23 Kh3 Rh5#; 23 Kh1 Re1 24 Bf1 Rxf1# are all big pluses for black. White can defend with 23 Qg3 allowing black to swap queens or with 23 Kg1, which is more difficult for black to checkmate (due to defence of f1, a key spot in some of the variations shown).
Bird's opening, Lasker variation, I'm currently playing two games with Lasker's variation of Bird's Opening, this one with black pieces
Nf6 is also fine for black
and this pin is the best white has...
after the sequence of exchanges white is clearly worst as it has two sets of doubled pawns...
black is still underdeveloped but wins one pawn with this double attack by the queen
the idea is if 23.Nxh7, black can capture the knight with 23...f6 to trap the knight 24.h4 white last chance is to get to h5 to control g6 24...Kf7 25.h5 Kg8 and the knight is lost, and so is the game as is just a matter of technic
and now pushing the queen's wing pawns I'll promote the c pawn... and win the game
and so it eventually happened...
A second fork and this time with a two point gain on offer.
Their last real chance of getting a queen removed.
This ensured I got on of the bishop or the knight. They promptly resigned.
...a bit unusual queen pawn game. But it is in the world database with player's ratings between 2350 and 2400.
Simple development.... If your not sure, play on principle and instinct. That's what I did here and it usually works well.
This opens up lines of development for my dark squared bishop. Of course, I planned to castle king-side. This is just normal but principled development by Black.
This was not the best of moves. It creates serious weaknesses in White's pawn structure and does not really do anything new...except perhaps allow the queen move Qa4+.  It's a little premature to attack queen-side with the pawns, especially since he played 2.c3 instead of c4.
Development is almost complete for Black.  White is terribly behind in that respect.
This is not a "second best": it is the normal developement for my preferred asset.
As in the previous game, the pawns storm, but this time my king is not behind them.
...black has to retire the N and I have to take advantage from this cramped position.
? Thanks black! You just opened the lines for my pieces.
Threatening Nxf7, so black has no time to play Ng7. Still, Nxe6 was a good sac chance.
The more black exchange pieces, the farther becomes my winning chances, but...
?? I'm not sure I will get the game without this blunder. So, a very good game by black.
I know White wins more from this position but I wanted to try a defense to see what he would do.
I missed the impact of this move. It holds the central tension and begins the pressure on the advanced f pawn.
...Petrov, I have rarely played this opening.
Trade accepted.
The exchange is in my favour. Black is slightly ahead in developement, and has both his central pawns. On the counterside, it is delicate for me to develop the lsb.
The idea is Qh3, provoking g3, and go on h5, h4. I know it is too slow, but I can't see anything better. Now, I would suggest Bc7 and Qh5, but this doesn't crush white. I'm down, and in serious danger to lose the game.
Bxg3 is too risky. It's a blitz, but let's try to play it honorabily...
I hope for BxB, but my opponent is good.
If BxQ instead, Nd4+, RxN, BxR and I can't assess the position properly, but white, despite the queen, seems not very at his easy. The text move loses by force great material, but it is not really easy to see it all in a blitz. White is already losing, here, apparently.
And now it's just a matter of time.
Here, white realizes that his lsb is lost, no there is no point in going on. But it was a fun and a wild game, I enjoyed it.
Normal development so far.
Black departs from the only previous game with this position, cheshco v jaburr (1-0 in 28 moves). Black played 9... c5, with the same idea of defending the pawn.
Black increases the pressure on the a6 pawn, but is not yet anywhere near creating a threat of capturing it.
One more piece enters the fray, and the path is cleared for the rook to join in. This threatens 23. Nc6, forcing Black to allow an exchange of material.
It is a team-match, I'm usually play very bad in it, not sure why.
he played end-game not strong
!! Can you see why it should work in this situation?
Look at this position! Black's entire queenside is undeveloped and his King is naked and alone in the other corner. And that is the point of Bxh7 and the question: when does it work? Without the analysis potential of a chess engine it is impossible to calculate with precision the long-term benefits of playing Bxh7, and even computers sometimes cannot see the full potential until a few moves have been made. <n>Basically, any sacrifice made to open up the opponent's king should be made if (a) the king will end up truly exposed, and (b) pieces can be brought into the attack quicker than those brought in to help the defence.
The key move! It opens the h-file for white's rook.
And my opponent resigned.<n>Comments and questions are most welcome.
im posting this annotation for a serious question about my opening, i need to see which of a certain move is better.
now i have an uglier pawn structure. this guy knows how to take people into middle game, I'll give him that.
was this the best possible move for black? I think so, but it is still mate.
The English opening is very flexible and often transposes into other openings.  It was named for the unofficial English world champion, Howard Staunton, who played it during a match in 1843.
1...e5 often leads to a transposed Sicilean defense, in which white has an extra tempo.
! (Good move)<n><n>This was played to prevent castling.  I hold the a6-f1 diagonal for most of the midgame, imprisoning white's rook in the corner.
?! (Dubious)<n><n>gxh4 would have opened the g file for counterplay, which would have been dangerous for Black after Rg1 and Bb2; however, this also prevented Black from invading on the kingside.
With the option for a trade, I decided that opening the f file while strengthening my pawn center was much better.  This also prevented counterplay on the g file.
After a lot of thought, I decided to capture with my king.  That prevents white from gaining a passed e pawn, which would require babysitting.  The paired passed pawns of mine would be a huge threat, but I couldn't find a way to force the two pawns through.<n><n>Edit: emf817 pointed out that cxd3ep is an excellent play:  39. Kd2 Kd4 40. Rh1 (Re1? Ra2  41. Kc1 d2  queens) Ra2 41. Ke1 Kxe4 and black has a protected passed pawn while white remains trapped.  A few moves earlier, I was set on the c pawn blocking d2 before pushing on for a queen, then didn't reconsider it when needed.
This game features a positional Sveshnikov opening, resulting in a very interesting endgame. Let's start!
The Svesh is one of the most thouroghly analyzed openings in the world, so this is well-known and standard.
Opening the b-file for the rook.
I was very happy with this position: I have to do something dramatic to manage to lose, and playing for a win is fully possible. We are playing for two results, as the Russian chesschool would say.
The game will finish in a draw: 50...e2 51.Bxe2 Kxc6 52.f6 Kd7  and the king rushes to block the pawn with a easy draw. In the game I thought black would win the a4-pawn, so maybe I should've played on. As a good rule: Always play to checkmate or only kings left!
Alright. I have played the Sicilian Defence here. This is the alternative move to e5.
Usually my opponent wouldn't play this, they usually go for Bc4 and try and set up for the four move mate or King's Gambit. I will see If I can find an example for you later.
Let's take it and see what happens
Finally he castles. and we are even in development but it is my move so I still have the advantage to attack and forcing him to defend
Opening the pathway for my bishop to chase his Rook @ f1.
Ok White has pushed his pawn to a3. This tells me he wants to back off my Queen but at this stage I already have forseen the end.
Let's see if he is too greedy to notice. (A stronger opponent offering a free piece, especially a Queen, Look closely for the reason)
The fiancetto is a long-term threat; for now Black takes the middle.
The position here is a little odd.  Black has the overall advantage with two bishops against two knights, but White's exchanges have freed his position.  Black needs exf6 Bxf6 to get his second bishop really in play.
As it happens, that pawn was too well defended; Black wins a pawn against the ill-conceived attack and with his Rooks now doubled and White's knight sidelined, Black has the advantage.
I am annotating this for two friends from Oswestry, who were playing each other on Gameknot.
I personally think this is the wrong way to recapture, as it allows black to develop the Nb8 with an attack on the white queen, gaining time.
White takes.
Black takes back.
This gives black an advantage.
10. Nb5 was played instead in paulatica (1537) vs. fromluxembourg (1915), but white also lost. I don't think 10. Nb5 is an improvement.
And it is gone.
So white takes.
Black takes back.
Now if the knight moves, Rd8 is mate. Faced with yet more material loss, white wisely resigned.<n>I thought this is extremely well played by black!<n>Many thanks for reading, please rate it on the star system, and leave a comment or two to let me know how I am doing. Until next time dear reader!
I wasn't completely expecting the queen.
My pawns have good structure on the king-side.
And it worked.
I see now my opponent is one who is willing for a even trade between pieces.
Nope, he didn't see it.
...but it wouldn't stay for long.
The game is now over, and the first of two wonderful games was complete. I hope you enjoyed this annotation. I also annotated the other game, which was also pretty good.
Real quick game, white is sharp & to the point.
Queens gambit for black
a suggestion of Bent Larsen, playing a Najdorf with the white pieces!
this is good.  the doubled pawns made it more difficult for white to realize his advantage.
?! This does not prevent the exchange, so I'm unclear what the point was (not that 10...Bh7 looked particularly promising right away). However, it does force White to weaken his castle to get the trade done...
?! Black did actually have a choice about accepting the trade: attempting to get out of it with 22...Rhg8 appears to fail because the Bf4 is hanging, but further examination shows an escape: 22...Rhg8 23.Qxf4 Rxe4 24.Qxe4 g2+ 25.Qxg2 Rxg2 26.Kxg2 cxd5 and the resulting slugfest of an endgame with RRB vs QN is sure to be exciting. Not that the text is boring, of course.
White sees a lot of barely-defended Black pieces in the middle of the board--so he'll try to remove the defenders (here, the Queen and the d5 pawn).
That's all she wrote! I hope this game proved entertaining and/or instructional to at least a few of you. Many thanks to acrai for the exciting game! Comments on the analysis or the game itself are always welcome. Thanks for reading!
We have now reached a point where we can fruitfully inquire into the logic behind White's Queen-side castling. As we have seen earlier, the possibility of Pawn captures and recaptures is a very important factor in planning the course of a game. These captures and recaptures result in  line-opening. And this line-opening in turn creates highways for the movements of our forces in an aggressive mood. In this case, White's basic tactical idea is to play h4, followed by h5, then PXP, taking advantage of the fact that Black's King pawn is at g6. Once white has playe h5, he is certain of opening the h-file, and having Black's address he will muster his heavy artukkery ib the newly-opened King Rook file to operate agianst Black's King.
Now, it has become clear that Black's threats are maturing more rapidily than White's. Yes, what use is this move? Where's h4? If White has not begun to play h4, then what use is g4? Well, we'll see as the game gets on. Anyhow, Black can now play 13....Nc4, but instead he hints in a much more effective move.....
Another little case of "too little and too late". Black simply continues with his own attack. (We no longer call it counterattack as it is obvouis that it is Black which is the real aggresor)
White seems almost on the pont of reaching his objective. His Queen and Rook are on the h-file, which is about to open after PxP. But meanwhile, Black has placed his forces in menacing postions and even at this stage he can shatter his opponet's postion with......Well, can you guess?
!!!!! Beautiful play! Black has paused in his attacking maneuvers to sacrifice in order to avoid the opening of the a-file. (note that hxg6 e.p is not possible).
!! Black does not bother with the gain of a Pawn (21....Rxf3) as he wants to win in the quickest manner.
White thinks he has closed the terrible long diagonal, but he is immediately undecived! The powerful Black bishops are just too much for him!
Murderous Queen in the game. Bad for White!
!! But why is this sacrifice needed? (Find it out later in this annotation)
This is one of the ways to stop mate, but has its own faults.
Well, we are near the end, so.... This tournament was played in High Barnet, White (Clareus) vs. Black ( G. Lynn). The maximum was 35 moves, and Black wins in 34 moves. Lynn won with glee, of course. Now let's get on to the next and final moves and see this marvellous game come to an end.
This move corrected my mistake though I lost my queen as I took three pieces from my opponent
now he made the fatal error & it is my time to win the game<n>watch & enjoy my finish
This was an error. Bg3 was in order with control of that diagonal. This move just begs for the advancement of the pawn. I was hoping that Black would take my bishop and I would take with the pawn establishing a blockading, isolated pawn on the e file. Notice how Black has established control over the center of the board with an advanced isolated pawn. This error was the critical turning point in the game.
I wanted for the exchange on the file of the rooks. I would end up with a mate. Of course my opponent was able to see this for what it was, cheap shots.
Attacking both isolated pawns that White conveniently created for Black. The game was lost by this point.
Here I am down a pawn so it would be logical for Black to exchange off pieces. This would make the extra pawn on the queenside passable.
My king is out of position to get the A pawn when Black advances it so it was time to gracefully bow out.
Although e4 is a common opening move I tend to prefer d4. This game was an experiment for me. We will see how it turns out
This seemed a good outpost for my lsb
Black takes advantage of the slight lull in my attack and gains himself a passed pawn
We are in the Zaitsev variation and I sudenly remember that my opponent is a specialist.
Black défends.
White has to carry on attacking. With such a late in material, letting the initiatice to black is a suicide...
1...Nf6. I am unfamiliar with this opening. I have no idea why I played this.
! Gets rid of my second attacker. Black's attack fizzles after the trade.
Typical French setup. White has grabbed a bit more space, which constricts the movement of the black pieces, but the centre pawns of white are also easily contested, which is what black will try to exploit in order to get to a middle game in which his e- and d-pawn will be free to march onward and create a lot of danger in the white position. I often struggle against this opening, so French experts may find my play rather inaccurate.
This cuts off my influence over g6 and prevents my queen from being capable of covering e5, pretty much dooming e5. However, the knight occupies a very active square on e4 and I decided I would much rather position all my pieces nicely, rather than desperately hanging on to the pawn while awkwardly placing all my pieces
Adventure time! I couldn't fully calculate everything from here, but I felt that if I wanted anything out of this game, it would have to be through an attack, given that I am down material, but have my pieces exquisitely positioned at his king. Holding out on this move would allow black to play h6, which would complicate my attacking options.
This move is important, as it makes it harder for black to create an escape route for his king... At least that was my thinking during the game. The GK computer analysis strongly disagrees and calls this move a blunder. The proper defense against this move will be outlined later in this annotation. I myself considered the strong defense a sign that the initial sacrifice of the knight was wrong, but the GK computer considers THIS to be the blunder giving white an advantage of 0.41 after the following line (I do not fully understand it myself, but it's posted here so it may be discussed): 17. Ng5 Re8 18. g4 Ba5 19. f5 exf5 20. gxf5 Bxf5 21. Nxf7 Bxd2 22. Nxd8 Bxd3 23. cxd3 Raxd8 24. Qg4 Kh8 25. Qh5+ Bh6
Not the right defense. As we will see, white's active pieces will make quick work of blacks position. While black's position was not particularly easy to defend, there seems to be a solution to it. Since the lines are not forced, there are a lot of options, so I guess we might first consider the less reasonable ones before coming to the one that appears the strongest and was suggested by the GK computer. The knight on g6 can not move, because of Nf6 xf6, Qh7#For this reason neither Bxf4 nor Nxf4 is an option. Removing the pin on the knight by playing 17....Re8 seems to be too slow because of 18. f5 leading to for example A) 18....Nxf5 19. g4 Nh6 20. Rxf7 Nxf7 21. Qxg6 Bd6 22. Nxd6 Nxd6 23. Qh7 Kf7 24. Rf1 Nf5 25. xf5  Qg5 26. Kh1 with a very vulnerable king for black, B) 18....Nf4 19. Rxf4 Bxf4 20. Nf6 xf6 21. xe6 xe6 22. Qh7 Kf8 23. Bg6, or C) 18....xf5 19. Bc4 Be6 20. Bxe6 xe6 21. Ng5 Nf8 22. Qf7 Kh8 23. Rf3 Ng8 24. Qh5 Nh6 25. Nh7. While none of these lines are forced and I may have missed something, it seems like it is very hard to defend after 17....Re8. The correct defense is therefore to immediately move the knight on e7 to a better defensive position. From the GK computer: 17....Nd5 18. Ng5 Nf6 19. Qh3 Bd6 20. Bxg6 fxg6 21. Bxd6 Qxd6 and white basically simply stays a full piece behind. I may myself have opted for 17....Nd5 18. Bxf8, but at that point the attack will also
) 18....Nf4 19. Rxf4 Bxf4 20. Nf6 xf6 21. xe6 xe6 22. Qh7 Kf8 23. Bg6, or C) 18....xf5 19. Bc4 Be6 20. Bxe6 xe6 21. Ng5 Nf8 22. Qf7 Kh8 23. Rf3 Ng8 24. Qh5 Nh6 25. Nh7. While none of these lines are forced and I may have missed something, it seems like it is very hard to defend after 17....Re8. The correct defense is therefore to immediately move the knight on e7 to a better defensive position. From the GK computer: 17....Nd5 18. Ng5 Nf6 19. Qh3 Bd6 20. Bxg6 fxg6 21. Bxd6 Qxd6 and white basically simply stays a full piece behind. I may myself have opted for 17....Nd5 18. Bxf8, but at that point the attack will also mostly have died down and two pieces for a rook is generally not a very favourable trade.
mostly have died down and two pieces for a rook is generally not a very favourable trade.
So White plays it. Note that White cannot transpose into the main line of the Grunfeld Exchange variation with 7. e4?? because of NxBf4. I have had an opponent play that a drop a Bishop!
I am actually far more familiar with this gambit when White has played e3 rather than Nf3. 1. d4 Nf6 2. c4 g6 3. Nc3 d5 4. Bf4 Bg7 5. e3 O-O 6. cxd5 Nxd5 7. Nxd5 Qxd5 8. Bxc7 <n>Then Black can regain the pawn with Na6 9. Bxa6 Qxg2 10. Qf3 Qxf3 11. Nxf3 bxa6 <n>I was thinking for myself now! Looking at the Databases afterwards, I see that 8. Bg4 is not best in this position, either Nc6 or Na6 seems better.
Computer also likes Qb2 here winning back the pawn. I didn't see it! Computer also quite likes my move. Black has got compensation for the pawn here.
Right, now he has to move the Bishop, then I take the d pawn with my queen. I bet you can see what I missed, and what he played next move. Easy to see when you have someone hinting that something is on! Harder to see a couple of moves back when I exchanged on f3.
Computer agrees with this.
Computer prefers Qb6, but I wanted to keep queens on, as I am a pawn down. "Exchange pawns but not pieces" is the general advice when material down.
Computer agrees with this.
Computer prefers Qb5, but I really don't want to exchange queens in this position!
Played to stop a queen check on d5.
Computer still thinks White has a large advantage +2.93 and suggests opening up the King side with 41. g3 g5 42. h4
3. ........... Bg7 - this is the Reti Opening, a hyper-modern opening and a very flexible one too.  Both of us have brought our knights out to KB3 and our bishops to Kkt2 making the position symmetrical and we castle next move.
10. .......... Bb7 - both sides have now completed their development, black has countered in the centre with c5 - I think the position is roughly equal, but a few moves later that will all change and black's position (my own, is about to go down south mega fast)
41. e8/Q  - a joyous fanfare greets the arrival of Glenda the Defender in all her splendour!  Glenda does not have defense in mind here though!  She too is not above chasing other queen's kings!
Now the "" The Roy Lopez...Exchange Variation"".....an --aggresive-opening--for white...!!!
The Q-Side attack begins...although slightly...nothing for Black to worry about at this moment in the game...........Agree with comments
~ ~ ~ THE DRAPES ARE DRAWN AND THE CURTAINS ARE CLOSING IN- ON THIS ""CHESS-STAGE ""  ~ ~ ~
Hi everyone!  Just to let you know that this is round 2 against dynamic_dv, the guy who skewered Glenda to one of my castles in "An Expert Lesson in Tactics".  This game was a classic Sicilian game in which both sides castled on opposite sides and when that happens this means a race involving pawn storms and heavies behind them.  Whoever gets behind in tempo here usually cops Old Matey.  I thought I had a strong attack, indeed it seemed that I had won a pawn.  But, a strong move by the Wicked Witch of the West put paid to all that and I ended up being a pawn down, and in the final position having to give up a second pawn to a knockout combo.  Ah well, at least I felt that I wasn't quite such a doormat in this game, but you the jury may feel something different.  Here we go .......
22. hxg7.  Here I thought that this move was very strong as I calculated the following variations:-<n><n>Variation A<n><n>22. hxg7 exf3 <n>23. gxf8=Q  Kxf8 <n>24. Bh6  Ke8 <n>25. Qg8  Bf8 <n>26. Qxf8# <n><n>Variation B<n>22. hxg7 Qxg7 <n>23. Qxg7  Kxg7 <n>24. Rg1  Kh7 <n>25. fxe4 Bxe4 <n>26. Rd2 <n><n>Variation C<n>22. hxg7 Rfe8 <n>23. h6 Qf5 <n>24. h7  Qxh7 <n>25. Rxh7 Kxh7 <n>26. Rd1 exf3 <n>27. Rh1  Kg8 <n>28. Rh8# <n><n>Variation D<n>22. hxg7 exf3 <n>23. gxf8=Q  Kh7 <n>24. Qxf7  Kh8 <n>25. Bd4 fxg2 <n>26. Bxe5  Bf6 <n>27. Bxf6# <n><n>After all these variations I was happy with the positions I would end up with.  But I missed something and Dave is about to show me just what I have been missing, sigh!
Opening the way
He takes and opens the runway for the A pawn
No he has trouble
saw this comming
These are one of the few opening responses I know that work for me. :D
Getting rid of his queen.
Going for the G pawn. My first Mistake that I found to be one after the game analysis. My opponent dint turn it into profit. I guess he dint see it or just ignored it.
His best move at the time. :D
oh yeah i'm black. Good. That was him moving his horse. Ok Ok. Rule number two. Always research your opponent for strengths and weaknesses.
Ok now he's moved his other horse out. He is starting to 'develop' by getting his major pieces off the back line. Apparently it is good to 'develop' early on. Someone told me this. Although i'm yet to see any real evidence that this is true.
I know it's hard to believe but i actually don't really know that much about chess. However, i'm pretty sure that it's NOT a good idea to have moved three pawns all up one space like i have on the right hand side of the board. I would also imagine that most good chess players would tell you that white is in a much stronger position at this stage
never saw that coming... don't know what he is playing at but i sure as hell don't like it
..... i was pretty sure i didn't use the pawn... Oh well, another fine example demonstrating how much of a rubbish chess player i am... I honestly don't know how i ever bloody win a game? Maybe i had a good reason for it. If i did i certainly can't think of it now. Oh yeah but wait... His pawn on d5 is now ready for the taking. He's going to have to get some extra support up to that.
Yeap... it's the art of giving your pieces away for no good reason.
now luckily this move was available otherwise i probably would have just resigned in disappointment/frustration.
not a lot has happened has it.... lots of moving my castles with no real change to the board
wait for it...
wait for it......
now if i'd have had any style i would have promoted that pawn to a bishop. But i don't. And i like to make sure i win. After all, winning is the most important part of chess (see 'golden rule'). It also would have been a little insulting and cheeky to my very talented opponent who probably deserved to win this game.
i guess i got lucky on a few occasions. It could have very easily been volhouder winning this game. I recommend challenging him to a game sometime. Just make sure you don't use my tactics about mentioning Sven Goran Erikson. I'm saving that for the much anticipated rematch ;)
!? The soundness of this move depends on the overall soundness of Black's idea.
!?  As in the early stages of an attempted English Attack against the Najdorf, this early second move with the knight, which defies opening principles, is justified, I think, by practical, tactical considerations.  I think that the way I was thinking owes a lot to playing here against Freddy (id=easy19)
!  Normally, Black has to use several tempi, often manoeuvring his N to sub-optimal squares like e8, h7 or d7 (where it gets in the way of his other pieces) to get this move in.  Now I get it in nice and early and have the luxury of considering how to prosecute my attack quickly, before White has even castled.
?!  This, and its follow-up make Black's position very loose, which gave me a lot of heartache for most of the rest of the game.  I think it was unwise to change plans in mid-course.
!?  An interesting choice with Black's lines already opening for the attack and Black's fianchettoed bishop aimed at the king's position.  The advantage is that it leaves White free to develop a kingside attack if he can.
! and suddenly I realised the full power of my previous move.  The Bishop on f5 wields devastating power, supporting the N's incursion on c2.  I hadn't planned this when playing 18....f4, so I see this as an example of luck in chess, rather than my own brilliance.
?  After the game, Geoff and I analysed 24. c5 to a draw: whether correctly? I don't know.
I accept it to keep the game interesting, curious to see how the cpu plans to compensate.
black has regained its lost pawn and I have lost castling rights.
now its my turn to sacrafice a pawn for rapid development.
But black assess' the potential danger mounting and passes up the pawn
not sure what opening this is
is it ok to have a double pawn here.
opps  i lost track of that bishop
White chose the Vienna Game and I responded with the Max Lange Defense.
My traditional opening.
His defenses are pretty good.
Usually I make another move and let my opponent attack my pawn on their next turn.
Not this time.
Now I lost that pawn.
His king is in quite a pickle and he doesn't realize it.
I'm not really worried about my pawns at this point, for I see opportunity for checkmate.
But he'll make me work for it.
This move now prevents him from putting me in check, and the c3 pawn makes intervention impossible, thus my next move, Qg7# was inevitable. kraaifontein resigned and this wonderful game was over. I hope you enjoyed this annotation!
This is the recommended way of playing the Semi-Slav according to American IM Larry Kaufman in his excellent book 'The Chess Advantage in Black and White' (McKay Chess Library, 2004). Kaufman's repertoire opening book is worth having a look at if you're searching for practical openings that aren't too analysed to death (Najdorf, Sveshnikov etc) or too drawish. The point of 3...c6 instead of 3...Nf6 is to avoid the Queens Gambit Declined exchange variation (4.cxd4) which is supposedly good for white because he hasn't yet committed his kings knight (to f3), so can more easily play f3 and e4 (after e3, Bd3 and Ne2-g3 etc). This move order means that black has to be prepared for the Marshall Gambit (4.e4) which is tricky but, for a clued-up black player, is probably not quite sound (though I have been on the wrong end of this in an over-the-board game!).
This is the ambitious (and only real) way of playing, holding onto the pawn. It does, however, invite the enormous complications of the Botvinnik Variation, which is nicely explained in Glenn Flear's interesting book 'Starting Out: Slav and Semi-Slav' (Everyman, 2005). Please note, however, that this book is five years old, which is light years when it comes to Slav and Semi-Slav opening theory. Kaufman, instead, recommends avoiding the Botvinnik by playing 5...h6 (this is called the Moscow Variation). However, the Anti-Moscow Gambit (in which white gives up a pawn after 6.Bh4 g5 7.Bg3 dxc4) gives white a lasting positional advantage and is not easy to play against.
I couldn't understand this move (and still don't). It seems entirely natural to play 14.Bg2 (especially after 11.g3). In the source game of this variation (in which Mikhail Botvinnik beat Arnold Denker in the famous USSR-USA radio match of 1945), Denker put his bishop on e2 and was crushed (and that was with the g-pawn remaining on g2). However, according to Flear, 14.Qf3 is the move to play, presumably to x-ray target the c6 pawn and keep the white bishop on the f1-a6 diagonal for the time being.
I can't remember why I played this instead of 14...0-0-0. I recall seeing a number of games in which white managed to get a pawn to e7 with a fork on two pieces, and figured that the king might be useful in the centre. In hindsight, I'm not sure this was a great move.
In this opening black is pretty well committed to attack as the best form of defence. This move, as well as hitting white's only central pawn, also opens the a8-h1 diagonal for black's QB.
I was expecting 18.e7 when (as mentioned earlier) a white pawn makes its way to the seventh rank with a fork. I'm sure this is weaker. It gives a check and, on the face of it, exposes the black king on the kingside. But the f6 pawn actually acts as a useful shield, and, meanwhile, black has strong central and queenside threats. One interesting variation could be: 18.e7 Bxe2 19.exd8=Q+ Qxd8 20.Qe3 (20.Kxe2?? Qd3+ 21.Ke1 Nf3 mate) 20...cxb2 21.Kxe2 bxa1=Q 22.Rxa1 Rxh2 23.Nxc5 when 23...Qd5 (centralising the queen) looks to be about equal.
Now the black queen comes to the e-file with a gain of tempo. This wasn't a difficult move to find. A check, after all, is a check.
Fitting, I think, that mate is given on e2, the square on which white's KB should probably have never visited.<n><n>If you're looking for an opening to play against 1.d4 and 2.c4, then the Semi-Slav is rich in possibilities. Obviously, you have to be clued up on the Meran and the Anti-Meran (both covered in Flear's and Kaufman's books), but I've found that the positions you get with black always seem to be nicely unbalanced and offer chances of fighting for the initiative (a bit like playing the Najdorf Sicilian against 1.e4). The Nimzo-Indian also fits the bill against 1.d4 and 2.c4, but white can avoid it by not playing 3.Nc3. personally, I don't much like playing the black side of the Queens Indian (3.Nf3 b7), and the Bogo-Indian (3.Nf3 Bb4+) offers at least one forced variation which gives black a cramped position that, at best, is drawish. So my advice is: MUG UP ON THE SEMI-SLAV: ("there is one defense that does it all – the Semi-Slav" says Kaufman).
In this game, the game was based on a strategic battle based on a central pawn mass vs piece activity. Of course, activity is the whole idea of chess, and therefore black's strategy was more sound. There are very instructive ideas in this game.
It's a mistake. Now black can easily attack the knight and force it away, while taking control of the center. Now his pieces are in better position.
Of course we should use the pieces, not the pawns. if we have a choice.
This move, really, is another positional inaccuracy. White turns his light squares bishop into a prisoner, and does not have a justification for it. White should simply go 9.Nd2, keeping his position in the center. However, it is not so bad as it allows white to easily get away with having a worse development.
All the white pieces are backwards. Certainly black should take and open things up. Now here is an  understanding of when to move pawns that are not for developing pieces or stopping threats.<n>1.You move pawns when your piece activity is greater/equal to opponent's. <n>2.Pawns are great to advance for an attack, but not good to defend yourself. When the opponent has activity advantage, you should keep pawns still. Here, white does not understand this idea, and black quickly starts an attack.
Black is tranfering his pieces to the kingside, and will attack there. White has a lot of pawns advanced, and therefore a lot of weaknesses. Not good when defending.
White does not know what to do in the position. There was very little for him to do. Black has a fierce grip on the position, and has gotton his pieces inside of the white's pawn chain, which has left many squares weak. More weak squares=More attacking chances for the attacker, and therefore pawns need to stay where they are when you defend.
White simply resigned. There is not defense, since black takes on f3 with the bishop, then the h3 pawn will fall. A good effort from my opponent.
Black keeps the pressure on.  Na5 is also interesting.
The key move.  Threatens Bf5.<n><n>If 21. Bd3 exd4 22. cxd4 Ba4 causes problems for white's queen.  23. Qc1 Rxb1+  24. Qxb1 Ba3 and white will have to throw away material to delay mate.<n><n>If  21. Rhc1 Rxb1+ 22. Rxb1 exd4 23. cxd4 Bb4 24. Rc1 Bd2 25. Qc5 Rxe2
kings pawn game
this
this
how about this...
of course you would do that! Hay!! how did rest of the game is in Chinese???
how about this?
this?
R O O K for the win!
this
checkmate! thanks for watching my annotation and please rate more than three stars and see you guys next time! good bye!!!!!
The exchange means Black will have to defend his advanced Pawn at d5. It could easily fall, but if it doesn't, it will cramp White's Queen-side development.
Black clearly has Queen-side ambitions.
Both players just need to complete their Queen-side development, and the middle-game can begin.
White's development is now complete. Neither side has done much, although Black has a slight spatial advantage.
Black is focusing on White's e-pawn, but it's well guarded. Both players need to move their pieces to the King-side if they wish to attack.
Black prevents this.
Black wins the minor exchange and weakens the defenses of White's King. However, getting pieces over to the h-file to launch an attack will not be easy, given the congestion on that side of the board.
Black's Queen-side prospects are cut off.
Black is positioning the Queen for a diagonal attack on White's King-side.
Centralizing the Bishop, though with no real threats. It does make Black have to move his Queen Rook out of the line of fire.
A tactical interlude. Black is given the opportunity to exchange Queens.
This time, Black accepts. A well-played game by both sides, and a deserved result.
simple move, yet b&w are at a quite equal stage of development.
standard development, played very often in the db. nearly 9 times more 2.d4 is played, what is called norwegian defense.
this situation appears in the db only 2 times: win/loss rate: 50/50 but Fritz calculates a little advantage for himself.
technically resigned.
The game is over now. I will have an advantage of 3 pawns.
The Caro Kann. Haven't seen this one in a while. A solid defense for people who like draws, if I recall. I pounce on the center.
All main-line moves so far.
Ditto. I can't help but observe that white has 3 developed pieces to black's none.
Still 4 to 0 development, but I don't see any terribly vicious attacks against black's stonewallish pawn structure.
I had wanted to play 15. Rfe1 while the black king and queen were still on the e-file, but I was 1 move too late. But here I found the way to gain a tempo and get exactly what I wanted. Black cannot play 15. .. Qf8?? to block for then he loses his queen, so he has to run back to e8, where I wanted him. I am inclined to give this move an exclamation, 15. Qa5 ! for the pure simplistic beauty of its quiet but inexorable threat.
I am black in this game.....Nothing is wrong if i say this is the game of check...both king face too many check and survive.............and the result ?<n>opponent open with king pawn
one last attempt please....but chess is game where if a move is wrong you must pay for it no chance.....
so BQ try to escape from king camp with a check...but Is White allow this easy escape on the cost of effective pawn ?
CHECK?.......COUNT HOW MANY CHECK IN THIS GAME ..THIS ONE IS SECOND
Okk for some time i prefer this
oh no.....This is not a place for you black queen..ok
one final attempt of protection
so now i just starting readjust himself ...but opponent has no mood to give me time for reorganize and a check storm is coming
FOURTH CHECK OF THE GAME.....so only possible move is
Is is the outcome of rethink ? another check ?
Opponent is now afraid of my passing pawn on e file and he start planing
CHECK NO. 23
Hi everyone!<n><n>After inflicting a pawn stab which stole Steve's knight and 10 rating points off him, I had to hand them back after this game which was the Traxler Mini Tournament.  I drew with Steve with the white pieces - in fact I never got round to annotating that particular game - I really must rectify this - but I was not so lucky here.  I thought my joblock fortress was really watertight but Steve managed to ensure that it sprung a leak somewhere!  So, how did this happen?  Well, after the forced moves, 4. .... Bc5 we pick up the action on move 5.
5. ....... d5 - this pawn move triggers off a series of trades.
10. Be3 - development.
40. f4 - this pawn break will spell the beginning of the end for me, this is how Steve managed to find the ammo to dynamite the Joblock.
While I attack my opponent's kingside, he begins a central counter attack. This is usually a good idea if one wants to have counterplay whatsoever
White nabs a second pawn... Its now do or die for me because if this game reaches an end-game, white's two extra pawns should be decisive..
This move would have put a bind on my two rooks if the e6-pawn wasn't hanging
Now my opponent resigns as after he recaptures, 42. Rh8 wins the passed pawn. The game was a well fought from both sides but I think black would have won had he payed a little more attention to his kingside...
My opponent plays the Sicilian Defense. This usually leads to an exciting game.
Now I have no choice.
My K-side is developed. Now for the Q-side.
If Black castles K-side, my Bishops are now in position to support an attack.
...so he gives it extra protection.
Attack the base of the Pawn chain and it will crumble...
Black could have played P-KB3, which would have been better for two reasons. First, it would have kept the K-side more closed. Second, it would supply a flight square for the King.
Scandinavien. For an equal game enough, takes away whites' openingplans. I was the lower rated, so I wanted preventing the combinations, what I donot knew.
I move my pieces with tempos.
Two active pieces was exchanged for my passivs, and I pushed c5 with tempo.
And so I won the Queen down and the game, too.
White choosed for kicking the queen (Ne2 and o-o was the other option, maybe preferable. The bishop's place is e3, making it difficult for black to occupy the black diagonal (g1-a7) with Bc5. Black's pawn in e4, will stay defended at least once at all times, and every black move strenghten black's position (Nd7, Bc5, f6, and black can even castle either sides. BUT maybe this won't sustain an expert opinion. I think white can threaten black on the kingside and try to force black playing defensively based on Qe2 - f4. A very interesting game will spread.
I'm not sure this was the best choice, but the truth is that even if blacks finally plays the Qxb6+, this is not a real concern for white.
Not sure about this. Probably, Nc5 would have been better, even if it is pinned. After Ka1, is doubtful black will have an easy game.
? ...but it was useless to play Bf2, because of d3, forking Q and N. White lost a piece. But I would have run of the knight, with Bf2 nevertheless. d3, BxB, QxB, WQmoves, black takes the N d3xNe2, and white reatkes the pawn with the queen. I think white is sligtly better placed than in the text, but anyway... In return, it was a pity, but I didn't dare to play RxN instead, betting for the bishop's pair power. It would have been more elegant and sporting.
...but this has the advantage to control c4, making any attack on the c column very difficult for white. Who, in the fry, lost a piece!
Well, I didn't want to think too much at this point, and exchanged all I could before white can make some countergame. I hope you enjoyed the opening and the fight in the midgame. Now, the game is won for black, but it is still of some interest to see HOW I win it, because to have the advantage is not enough if you don't know how to exploit it.
? White could have gone for a check's round, here, causing me another think about how to force his threat Qa8!
My opponent, sensibly, resigned. A very enjoyable game, where he made me sweep a lot to win. The win is not always the good meter for a good player.
Tarrasch Defense
21... Rxe6 is a better choice.<n>Here white exceeded the time control and lost.  What should happen is ...
This game was littered with blunders and errors. Fritz 8 analysis spit out nearly 2 pages of analysis and variations.
I play the Caro-Kann, as I do about 90% of the time. It's the only defense I feel comfortable with and actually understand pretty well.
And now, White makes me pay for it with an attack on the backward pawn.
I had no choice but to allow White's regain of his two pawns.
I've noticed in many of my games, I often make certain moves several moves later than I should have. We'll see this theme later in the game from Black as well.
Has White forgotten all about his passed pawn? It appears so.
...this move gives it all away. Forced mate in 4...I didn't even see it until the checkmating move.
I like how white pushes the black queen.  She must move about four times while white develops his pieces.
Here white makes up the lost pawn.
Why would white threaten the black bishop by doubling its pawns?  This trade is black's advantage, and forsakes the pawn/knight trade PxNc6.
5 points down every trade now works to black's advantage.
The Reti opening. As in the Queen's Gambit, White is trying to remove Black's QP and thereby lessen his control over e4.
White has regained his rook, but how does he extricate his knight?
Black now has a very dangerous pawn.
The immediate 11...e2 is best, but this also wins.
? I don't think this is great.
His position is in tatters. While he is still up a pawn, he has *four* different pawn islands, and three isolated pawns. White, has two pawn islands and one isolated pawn. White is also more active.
something tells me this isn't correct for black i'm sure there's a way round it but i certainly didn't find it in this game.
personally i dont like having a queen in the middle of the board so early on, however it is a dangerous threat and in this game i ignored it. also look already how black is behind in development! due to not playing kings pawn openings enough myself as white i am a bit of a stranger to the tricks and traps.
a bad move by white surely? it looses a tempo and establishes a strong outpost for my white squared buishop, however it does remove any attacks (for now) on the central queen.
(in hope of distraction)
blacks best move of the game probably
(blacks worst move of the game probably)
black's final blunder. stronger may have been Ne6 with good chances for black to win back a pawn  - however those two passed kings pawns seem unstopable from here
But the surprise is his'.
I don't care for my rook, giving the "umbalancing element" a good attack must have; often a sac. This is a strange way to perform it.
I thought I'd annotate my loss against this opponent since I annotated the win I think it's pretty interesting, for a while I had the advantage but I blundered it away Actually, for most of the game I was materially ahead, but I took a rook with my queen early on and lost the use of it for the rest of the game.
I though it dealt with it, but I didn't notice Qf6! winning a knight. Luckily, neither did my opponent.
The game is in white's favor now
But everything stops for check
Another game from my Queen's pawn tournament against one of the stronger players in the tournament<n><n>The analysis of this game can be found at http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=13970651&rnd=0.5168563760817051
Opening a line for his lsb though this is described by the computer analysis as an innacuracy
preparing for a queen side pawn storm. Also preventing Nb4.
This was a bit of a suprise. I think black is playing a patient game, waiting for a mistake that he can pounce on
The analysis suggests that this is an inaccuracy and that g4 is better, however I again was reluctant to disturb the pawns in front of my king and felt that this would weaken the black pawns
This blunders a piece
The analysis suggests 24. Qxe6+ Kh8 25. Rxd6 Qe8  but I didn't see that at the time
This was really a waiting move to see what black would try
This is a major blunder in my view, black is looking for the queen exchange, he has however forgotten about the pin<n><n>The analysis suggests Qf6
but first I wanted to make sure that the lack rook didn't get in the way. Looking at it now this seems uneccessary, however in the analysis the advantage swings significantly back in my favour
Looking at the position now I felt I was in with a chance. Although the material imbalance isn't too great, black has three isolated pawns and his rooks are very limited in mobility, his best chance is to open the h file but he can't force that. I have doubled pawns though I don't feel they are a massive weakness and my queen is nicely placed
up until this game, I never took the French Defense very seriously; most theory I fathomed, came from Blitz experience... this game opened my eyes for good; by now, I know better......
after the game - I lost in the end - I found Qh4... that move is much better...
it is over; White resigned...
This threatens 8. ... h4 but 9. Be5 is available and a good position for white so I thought this was not only a bad use of tempo but also weakened the black g pawn.
Black's knight is the only real threatening piece at this stage and I wanted it gone
A rare reply
This was first time my opponent played 1.d4 against me instead of 1.c4 that he uses often.
I see that my opponent had little surprise for me in this game. I was already prepared to continue with 6.Be2 but I wasnt worried about this move even that with this move white tries to put pressure on queenside later in this game.
20.g4?! not the best option as 20.b6 Na6 21.bxa7 Rxa7 22.f3 exf3 23.Nxf3 is available. This move is bit inaccurate but It works if black takes the pawn by 20...fxg4 21.Bxg4 Nxg4 22.Qxg4 Qxg4  23.hxg4 Bxg4 24.Ncxe4. In this game I felt that this is not the best one but not bad one either.
This is the correct answer in here as 20...f4 21.Ncxe4 Ng6(not 21.Ndxe4 Ng6) 22.Nf3 Nxh4 23.Nxh4 isint so effective for black and 20...fxg4 21.Bxg4 Nxg4 22.Qxg4 Qxg4  23.hxg4 Bxg4 24.Ncxe4 is horrible.
This is the only effective response which tries to win material against whites powerful queenside pawn storm as 21...Bxc3 22.Rxc3 Qg7 23.gxf5 Qxc3 24.Nxe4 Qg7 25.fxg6 gives white big advantage because his pieces are more active and his queenside pawns are dangerous-
My opponent used about 15min on these move and after the game he offered 23.Bxf3 but he couldnt find any good way to with it. After analysing we came up with example how this game could have continued 23.Bxf3 exf3 24.Nxf3 Nf4 25.Bxf4 Rxf4 26.Qd3 Rxg4  27.hxg4 Qxg4  28.Kh1 Qh3  29.Kg1 Bf5 30.Qd1 Bxc3 31.Rxc3 Kh8 32.Nd4 Rg8  33.Rg3 Rxg3  34.fxg3 Qxg3  35.Kh1 Qh4  36.Kg1 cxd4 with really difficult position to play.
Pawn must be taken. 36...Rd6 is good try but after 37.cxb7 Qxb7 38.Rxe5 Qg7 39.Re6 Rxe6 40.dxe6 Qf6 41.Re3 Bc6 42.Qe2 Bb7 43.e7 Re8 44.Re6 Qg7 45.Qd3 Kh8 46.f4 and black would have fallen to deep trouble. In this game I didnt calculate that far as after analysing that option few moves it just felt to be too dangerous and I left that idea.
Discovered defense combined with a potential threat.
When down in material, trade pawns not pieces.
If Bxh3, Rxg5 leaves black with a passed pawn.
At this point I was doubting this game is drawable unless white blunders.<n>Apparently Rb5 would have lead to a combination winning the pawn.
White makes a final mistake.  A better move would have lost the pawn, however, and lead to a drawn endgame.
White tries to fool black- 2. Qh5 g6 - and get his rook but black realises and protects the pawn.
Black accepts the trade and also offers a queen swap..... but.......
defends it.
white advances his pieces.
The Two Knights Defense in Italian. Me and my opponent had some blitz quarrels over this, so we decided to settle the score in a regular game... Modern theory continues with 3. ... Bc5 4. c3 Nf6 5. d4 exd4 6. cxd4 Bb4+... Might follow 7. Bd2 Bxd2+ 8.Nbxd2 d5 9. exd5 Nxd5 10. Qb3, with a slight edge for white, however 7. ... Nxe4 8. Bxb4 Nxb4, poses white more problems... After 7. Nbd2 Nxe4 8. d5 Bxd2 9. Bxd2 Ne7 black is slightly better...
The Blackburne variation. I prefer this over the main variation with 8. Be2 h6 9. Nf3 e4 10. Ne5, or the Steinitz variation with 10. Nh3!?
Hi all; this was a casual game played largely for practice. Probably the most critical thing of note in this game (besides the usual factors like activity and development) is staying aware of all moves--especially tricky ones, like en passant captures. Enjoy!
This is not bad, but it also doesn't accomplish anything: 5.Bg5 was no threat, and this move doesn't aid Black in his own development.
Castling is all well and good, but this comes far too late to be useful. Black is lost, but there are a few more comments I'll make through the end.
1-0. Black has had enough. I hope you found something constructive about development and awareness to take from this game--more will be forthcoming! Thanks to chicoboy for the game and thank you for reading!
Now the game is essentially lost for White
White resigned
Two Knights Game.
This is the Ruy Lopez. I don't encounter it too much, but I hear that it is a great opening. My lag of experience for very complex openings prevents me from using it. However, I counterattack this opening with moderate ease.
This is not part of the opening played, therefore, it is an inaccurate move. 4.O-O is the main line and 4.d3 is the Mortimer variation while 4.d4 is the Nyholm Attack.
Thanks for the help, LSB. My DSB is my only minor piece, but yet I have all of my major pieces (Rooks and the Queen).
I have no clue why White played this move.
I think I'll chose to end the game.
My customary 1. e4 opening.
The Ruy Lopez is my default play in this sequence.  Though I admit my knowledge of its theory is a little weak, I've played it a number of times.  It tends to produce a ragged queenside pawn structure at this level which helps to compensate for the tempi White loses while his bishop is hunted by Black pawns.  It usually ends up on b3, which isn't a bad spot for it anyway.
The Berlin Defence.  It has a solid reputation.
Black's attacks have won him a pawn, but at the same time his developent is slowed down and only going to get worse.
?? This can only be an oversight.  Black's sturdy defense is at the expense of mobility, and perhaps the desperate search for activity has caused him to mistakenly advance his queen.  As before, I prefer Ra6 to prepare c6.
White declines a Queen trade in favour of a retun to the pressure attack of before.  22. Qxd8 Kxd8 23. Nc6 - 24. Nxe7 offers a material advantage to White, although not quite as much as the best defence against the moves that follow.  It doesn't really seem to matter what White does here: the dropped rook has robbed Black of a vital defender and it matters only if he will force White to push his advantage to the end or will instead break early.
? Black offers no defence.  Although he is certainly lost anyway.
Big difference between the two games. In my practice game, White played Nc3 here (an extremely unusual move). In this game, White plays the most common move. You've got to develop your pieces! And White puts his knight on its natural and best square.
This game features a very critical line against the Reti move order, 1. Nf3 d5 2. c4.  By responding 2...d4, Black enters a Benoni reversed, but with an extra tempo for White.  White can counter 3. b4, or as in this game, 3. g3, intending to undermine the center with Re1 and e3.
Offering the b-pawn in exchange for the e-pawn.
Now White is slightly better due to his strong light-squared bishop and extra center pawn.  However, this is not so easy against a 2100 player.
Black secures his center, and with it, his space advantage.  White has to play very energetically to avoid being smothered.
Black clears the way for the attack on the e2-pawn.
Step two, exchange off a set of pieces to make some breathing room.
Not sure about this plan, however, I really don't see a way for Black to break through.  This will get rid of the bishop pair after the obligatory Bxf4, however, my pieces are getting active, while that dark-squared bishop looks offsides.
Ok. I don't know if this has a name or if it's just plain silly. I thought to give a pawn away to see if I could get an edge in the center.
I resigned directly after making this move :-) Had I not made this error I might have survived a few more moves. maybe 15. ... Qxg2 or 15. ... Bxh8 would have let me survive beyond move 20 but not by much. That nineth move spelled disaster.
...then we trade pawns, keeping with the Centre Game...
...in exchange for mine, distorting his pawn structure, doubling on the c-file...
...and we also trade queens...
...so I attack it with mine...
...and this time I double up on the d-file...
...my queen boxes him onto it...
4. e4     This move is a first for white. Usually play e3 (twice) and the results were 1 win and 1 loss. This time round white played e4 because the database showed a higher winning percentage for white and this seems to be an aggressive move, I think another way of saying that is that this is a move with tempo. Moves with tempo are something I have learned about recently, I look for them now. It seems to help
Black plays 4. ...  Bd6    Looking at the databases, this move is not in the "World" database but is in the "GameKnot" database and has been played 6 times. Going by the database black has made the best statistical move for a black victory.
¿What? Chasing away the Bishop does nothing but weaken the blacks king side defense. White clicked on analyze to see what the game would looked like if it went 10. Nxg5 hxg5 11.Bxg5. White liked what was seen and so sacrificed the Knight for position. It took about 30 seconds to analyze, move and hit the submit button.<n><n>White is close to castling and complete developing. Black has castled, is behind in development, is cramped and needs to move precisely to stay in the game.<n><n>¿Could chasing the Bishop away be a fatal mistake?
Wow, white likes it. Whites projected power on the king side is impressive. Whites Bishops and Queen have a clear look at blacks King. Black needs to open the position up to move in re-enforcements. White sees the beginning of the end for black. If the Queen could hurry up and get to the h file this game is history.<n><n>White is down a point but has excellent position.
After black is a little slow in development, white opens up the position.board.<n>Then after black does not find the correct defense, he gets is blown from the board.<n>White is able to launch a king-side attack in which he succeedes using a few nice sacrifices.
So far nothing remarkable, but black next move is a little too slow.
Black his pieces are being pinned down everywhere.<n>However this is unneeded for, and 0-0-0 would have been better.<n>Things might seem threatening, but if black had played 0-0 all danger would have been gone.<n><n>White position seems strong, but it can be undermined with a simple c7-c6;<n>It is unclear to me who has the better chances here.
That should be the end of it, black could have resigned here.<n>The game has a few interesting moves left however.
I would not have played that, but you cannot blame black for trying to get back into the game.
This rook cannot be taken. Also the h-line is now open.<n>If we count material, then we can see black is being overwhelmed on the kings side already.
Black resigned
my opening move
stops knight c4, but anyway, the rest of the game is smooth sailing.
Normal development.
As well as helping his development, this threatens a rather nasty check on h5.
But this move looks stronger, with a terrible threat of Bf1-c4+.
This is a tactical mistake. OK stop and find the best continuation for white!
I played this, hoping to get the two bishops as compensation for losing the pawn back. In fact it contains a tactical error. Again, what would you play as white?
I try to open up the position for my two bishops, and also complete by queen side development.
He takes back.
He takes back.
He takes a pawn and attacks my rook.
but he plays this, so if I win his queen, he wins mine with check! I also need to block Rc1-c7+ which is very nasty.
He takes back.
And, with two clear pawns down, and all by pieces still on active squares, my opponent throws in the towel. We won the match 3-2, winning the top three boards, and losing the bottom three, as expected.<n><n>Many thanks for reading, please comment and rate this on the star system. Until next time dear reader!
This was my opening game in a minitournament consisting of teammates from Waskally Wabbits and Morose Mooses. I decided to annotate all my games from the competition, as this would also help me to focus more on my games and hopefully cut out most blunders. I can't promise scintillating play, as I'm not that kind of a player. :) <n><n>My opponent, Blackbaron, is my most frequent opponent on Gameknot, and I played against him in my very first minitournament in this site. We usually have very exciting games with a lot of exchanges early on, so let's see how this one goes. <n><n>He starts with 1.e4. My personal favourite, pawn moves to the centre, and frees two pieces, the light squared bishop and the queen. My usual defence against 1.e4 is the French Defence.
1.... c5. The Sicilian, my current preferred opening against 1. e4. I had a pretty good run with the French, and will return to it soon. Tried the Pirc for a while, with horrible results. Record with the French : 50%, Record with the Pirc : 35%.  Have recently ordered the book Play the French by John Watson (just arrived today, in fact. Takes 12 days for Amazon.com to deliver to Bangladesh, for anyone who might be interested) :) . Will switch back to the French after I study the book for a while.
Unorthodox move, no idea if this move is in the book, will have to check later after the game what the best response is. For now, will have to follow my instincts. Perhaps he is planning to fianchetto his own bishop, to prevent me from playing g6 for the Dragon formation.
Actually, I was expecting this, Kxf7 looks safe, and worth the extra piece.
12.O-O-O. Let's see how this changes things. White's fianchettoed bishop is now protected, and can threaten my queen. Let's see what my options are. I have three pieces that I haven't developed at all, not a good idea in such an open game. The bishop and rook can't really move, and are running out of oxygen. Nc6 looks like the only developing move. But what if 12%u2026 Nc6?  13. Nb5. Among other options, an exchange of queens would suit me fine, will have to find ways to force it. Something like Qf4 would be a step in that direction, and would also take my queen out of the range of White's annoying darksquared bishop. But should I go for that now, with so many pieces still undeveloped?
In the end, I settle for Qf4. Getting White's queen out of the game, or even forcing it to move away from the h1-a8 diagonal would allow me to develop my pieces. Of course, White still has the option of replacing the queen on that diagonal with his lightsquared bishop.
Exchange of queens suits me fine, as I am a piece ahead. Also reduces the pressure that was being exerted on my queen side pieces.
I don't like this. Next up I suppose he'll support it with g4. I'll take measures to advance my pawn anyway.
I'm not too happy with my position, my extra piece hasn't meant anything so far, must get to the endgame quickly.
Draw, we share the points. I had an extra pawn, with a kingside pawn advantage, but I was under pressure from my opponent from a very early stage, and was relieved to get the 1/2.
Ok so reassessing the board this game turned into an endgame to casting the net for checkmate.
The Grunfeld.  I don't think we've played this one between us before.
Now White has a typical Grunfeld pawn structure but Black still has two Ns.
Black creates a hole for his K (or B if it is attacked) but also provides a target for White.
This is a double edged move: if Black swaps pawns I get a nice pin on his Nf6 and can follow up with a full-scale kingside attack with minor and major pieces.  On the other hand, White's king is looking exposed, so, if the attack fails, Black will probably mate White quickly (but such possibilities are a long way down the line at this stage).
?  The computer nails this as a mistake because it allows "… Rad8 20.  Ng4  Qc7  21. Bxf6 gxf6  22. Nxf6+ Kh8  23. Qh5 Rg8+  24. Kh1 Rg7  25. e5 Na4  26. Nxh7 Nxc3 (+3.54)".  However I saw an even "cleverer" move ...
!??  I had my heart in my mouth as I played this picturesque move, apparently putting the Q en prise but exploiting the pin on the Nf6 against the Qe7.  It's the kind of move that would cause a lesser opponent to panic but Sheridan reacted calmly.  Of course the prosaic computer sees none of the beauty in my concept and has Black launching a Queenside frolic with his own Q:<n><n>Blunder: +0.62 » 21.  Qh5  Nbd7  22. Qf3 Qa3  23. Bb1 Qb2  24. Ng4 Rc8  25. c4 Nxg4  26. hxg4 c5  27. Re2<n>Best: +4.20 » 21. Ng4 Qa3 22. Bxf6 Rc8 23. Qd2 gxf6 24. Nxf6+ Kh8 25. e5 Rg8+ 26. Kh2 Nd5 27. Nxh7 Nxc3 28. Ra1
This was a bit mysterious and had me worried for a while.  It's not clear what Black plans to do with this B.  Perhaps it's a question of putting it somewhere safe where White won't bother to molest it.  If he'd just played it to g6, I'd have harassed it with the h-pawn.  If he'd played it to g4, we might have settled for a draw by repetition if I'd gone 36. Rg7 Bh5 37. Rg5 etc
! (-9.27)  At a stroke, Black renders White powerless as he is in zugzwang.  Every moves enables Black to increase his advantage.  I resigned.
And he plays the Morra Gambit, offering a pawn for speedy development.
Following a suggestion by Leonard Barden and Tim Harding. Also partly as a result of being beaten too many times on the black side of this at Sheffield University by Peter Large. It is quite acceptable to take to pawn however, if black follows it up correctly.
And so too for black
The queen takes up a central location. For the first time in the game I had a good think. I remembered a game from my university days where I continued with f5, but it seemed to me that f5 left my d pawn backwards, and if I later played d6 or d5 to stop it bein backward, he could just play e5xd6 and my e pawn was backward. I didn't want to leave his e5 pawn unmolested, it could form the basis of a king side attack. Why not play d6 now? Yes that's what I'll play. Now according to Harding and Barden, "Black can equalise with Taimanov's 7....f5". I did find out later that f5 does score better for black, and is more popular, although d6 also scores well for black.
He takes
I castle. This seemed normal, although on the opening databases, Qe7 is more commonly played. 11....0-0 is not played in any of the 8 World Opening database of over-the-board games. There is one Gameknot game with this position after 11....0-0, nemours (1706) vs. riva77 (1712)
He develops. Now in nemours (1706) vs. riva77 (1712), black continued with 13....a6 and lost. Maybe my move I played is an improvement? This position also came up in Stein, Bernd (2380) vs. Kovalev, Andrei (2500), where black continued with Be8 and won, although Be8 seems to me to be undeveloping, and breaking the rule of not retreating a piece to the back rank to break the connection of your rooks. What do you think dear reader?
He takes.
He finally completes his development
Quite a stunning sacrifice. I thought I couldn't take this, because of exd5 23. Qxe7 Rxe7 24. Rxe7 Bxe7 25. Bxc7  and he gets the piece back. After the game, my opponent thought that this position was good for black. However I thought what I did play led to a plus for black.
So he takes here
Similar to the Bogo-Indian but made with the Samisch variation in mind. 3. e3 allows for the exchange of bishops without the doubling of pawns commonly associated with the Samisch.
This move makes it impossible to play Nc6 right away since White would win the pawn after the exchange. The move also prevents Bd7 with the hope of playing Nc6 under more favorable conditions.
Met with e5, I begin the lines for the King's Gambit; a line I've been experimenting with, primarily in Blitz games. The King's Gambit involves the initial sacrifice of the white f pawn. The concept behind it being that off centering black's e pawn will give white an advantage in the game through center control and initiative. Black's best hope is to slow the pace of the game down and lock up the board as much as possible, so as to stave off the early offensive and retain the advantage in material.
My opponent responds with the common and quite effective g5. Here I make an interesting attempt to peal off that defense. Admittedly I do not know the theory behind this move at all, it was simply a move I thought of and utilized. At this point I am rather intent on securing my the pawn on f4, I have a significant advantage in development and control of the center, if I could equalize the material I should have the game fairly securely in my favor. My only concern is g4, in which case I would have sacrificed my knight as opposed to moving it to either h2 or d2. I would have attempted to take advantage of the additional tempi and launch a whirlwind tactical assault upon the opponents center. For example Zimmer vs. Hans Mueller in 1918. In that particular case white sacrifices two pawns and a knight, similar to this game, in order to gain the initiative to win the game.
Unfortunately for black, he does not see the looming checkmate. He accepts the "poison knight" and allows for Qh5+. My opponent then resigns, seeing 8... Ke7 9.Qf7#. This is my first annotation, I chose (obviously) a short and tactical game for simplicities sake. This game is an excellent example of the strength in the King's Gambit, especially against opponents not entirely familiar with the lines. Forcing your opponent into a sharp, tactical game creates a very small margin for error, and that can be capitalized on by a clever tactician, particularly in Blitz games. Please comment and let me know what you think.
This is the second game between Graham and Myself.  This first one i lost.  I made a fatal mistake neglecting my King defense.
There it is.  This is the same as our first game which I lost so i decided to change things.
He saw it and decided the best defense is to attack.
When under so much pressure I think it best to sacrifice my pieces for his attacking pieces and relieve some pressure.
Graham resigned.  This was a very tough game.  I was caught off guard early and was lucky enough to come out of this.  I would have been happy with a draw half way through but if you keep on fighting you may surprise yourself.  Graham won our third game :-)  Well done buddy,  2 : 1 to you.  ( so far ) :-)
!? I don't see this often. It can lead to the Boden-Kieseritzky gambit (3...Nxe4 4.Nc3) of which I know very little. Note that after 3...Nxe4 4.Nxe5?! d5 is good for Black, but it's a tricky line. I didn't want to end up in all this stuff so instead I decided, after a short think, to play 3...Nc6, transposing into the Two knights which I have played earlier when I still preferred 2...Nc6.
Almost forced to block the attack on f7, but 4...Bc5!? is another very tricky line, called the Traxler. I know there are some mini-tournaments played with this opening, but I didn't participate in one of them and I don't know the opening so well so I decided to stick to the main line which I know pretty well.
This makes it a gambit. Black can also play 6...Bd7, which is a quieter line. Black will eventually be able to round up the d5 pawn, so he won't be a pawn down, but White gets a good game. In this line it is Black who has all the fun and attacking chances, though the compensation for the pawn is not trivial at first sight.
Another line is 8.Qf3, but I don't know much about that variation. This is the main line, but he needed some time to think so I knew he was out of his opening theory.
White's pieces are chased around while Black can develop their game. This is still the main line of the 4.Ng5 variation, all moves ffrom 4.Ng5 on are the most frequently played ones.
?! This is a deviation from the main line. I don't think it's a good move, because Black can exchange his only weak piece (the knight on a5) for a knight which was controlling quite a lot of the central squares. In the 365chess.com database it has good stats for Black.
Although you usually don't want to exchange pieces when you're a pawn down, I thought that this move was justified because I exchange off a passive piece for an active one. Most people who had been in this position before me agreed with this assessment, this is the most played move in the position.
White develops, but the Black pieces are better coordinated for attack and he is ahead in development. Whitestill has to make three moves to achieve the opening goals (castling, playing the b or d pawn and then developing the c1 bishop) while Black only needs one move (a developing move of the c8 bishop). Black has a good game.
Maybe not the safest place for the king, but castling queenside takes a lot of time.
Probably this was the moment when my opponent realized how weak f2 was. He can't do anything to defend it except for giving up the exchange with 19.Rf1 Bxf1 20.Qxf1 (which is probably relatively best in this position).
! Obviously I couldn't take on e1 yet (probably what my opponent was hoping for?), since the queen was attacked, but with this tempo attack on the knight I win the exchange anyway.
Opening more attack lines and pinning the bishop. White is completely lost here: all his pieces are pinned, undeveloped or tied down to defence, not to mention he's an exchange down.
Mate on g2 is inevitable and can only be prolonged by interposing with the bishop on f3 (25...Qd5+26.Bf3 Qxf3+ 27.Kg1 Qg2#), so White resigned. I think this game shows how quickly it can go wrong for White in the Two knights. All his problems were mainly caused by one bad move, 18.d3?. I think the Two knights is a fun opening to play for Black and I enjoy to play it from time to time, especially this line. By the way, I finished on 4/7 in the rapid tournament (under 1650 section) after a 0/2 start, so I was pretty satisfied with the end result. I hope you enjoyed the annotation. As always, feel free to leave some comments.
Hi all. I have decided to annotate this game, as the end of an era for me. This is - was - the last chess game in which I ever played the Stonewall Attack as White. I know that readers may have different opinions, but I have finally become convinced of how difficult it is to crash home with this attack against an experienced player. Several bad experiences with the Stonewall Attack, both OTB and online, have caused the decision to give it up. Have a look at this game to see why.
I start with the queen pawn, and my opponent plays his queen pawn.
Unfortunately for me, Black's plans to not seem to allow White to play any kind of "future attack". Black is trying to lock down on my position and cramp my centre, so that the attacking pieces...simply cannot get out. Ordinarily, ...c4 is a weak choice for Black, as it removes all his possible counterplay on the queenside. Under the circumstances, however, and accompanied with his powerful grip on the centre, it is a strong option.
Consolidating Black's powerful centre. Black is now dominating the centre and the queenside, while White's attacking pieces have barely any room to breathe. Black's backward pawn on e6 is in no way weak. The good thing for White is that Black has no way to break through and convert his positional advantage into a win - his pieces cannot get past my pawns on the queenside, while the centre is locked.
I exchanged queens, and offered a draw, which Black accepted. Objectively, Black's position is superior, with his bishops far better-placed. However, it is only a matter of time before White's bishops can scramble out of their hole onto the kingside, and in the meantime Black has no way of breaking through. So, I felt that a draw was a fair result for this game - but I will leave that to the viewers to decide! I was happy with the high-rated draw I had reached; however, the stagnant, cramped game had taught me a harsh lesson. I was no longer going to play the Stonewall.
This move doesn't appear as strong now that White has the option of removing my fianchetto, but the control of the dark squares remains the same if both dark-squared bishops are gone, White will have simplified the control. This is sort of like the Kavutskiy variation of the Modern Defense, but White sets up his pieces Bd3 c3 Na3 in that opening. Trading dark bishops usually isn't a problem for Black in the Kavutskiy variation.
Now the position has turned into a variation of Sicilian Dragon where Black hasn't played Nc6, and has made a lot of odd moves. White can play b4 here, but after axb4 axb4 Na6 I can put pressure on the b-pawn, and if Black advances the b-pawn then my knight gets an outpost on c5.
Here I get two minor pieces for a rook, which can be a crushing advantage in a lot of positions, but White's rooks get active and my minor pieces take awhile to coordinate, so White was able to get a lot of play and almost won.
White threatens Nc6 here, so I should've played Bg7 and been safer, and after that I shouldn't have any problems. My material advantage should be enough to win, but I played more risky moves and White got a huge initiative. A material advantage is only useful if your extra pieces can coordinate well, and my minor pieces cannot coordinate well at the moment.
I decided to play the riskier variation where I threaten to play Ng4, but it is too greedy to grab more material and stall the coordination of my minor pieces.
This move shocked me I thought Rf1 was probably the best move. Here I should just play Bxf2 and have a comfortable advantage of two minor pieces and a pawn for a rook, but I played to win more material which gave White some tempo
The most I can get out of this is an exchange,
because of my greediness, White gets this tempo move in and my material advantage drops. This caused me to make a horrible move and give White winning chances, in what should've been an easy win for me.
Another hasty move. I should've played Qe8 and settled for a 1-pawn advantage after White takes my bishop and wins my trapped knight, after this blunder, White gets a passed pawn and gains a lot of tempo and almost wins,  while my minor pieces cannot coordinate and can be picked off in their horrible positions.
This move makes way for Qa2 where White's major pieces are threatening on the open file. My minor pieces are too slow to stop that action and are virtually useless. Here I realized my only hope is to get my queen active and draw by perpetual check.
This is the only way to stop the mating threat, and after the queen trade, I have an easy win because of my advantage in pawns.
White cannot stop both passed pawns, so he resigned here.
this is odd...
White lost on time
The ending of this game is pretty sweet.
Bold.  This exchange doesn't end with white breaking pawns, however.
Ha ha!  White thinks you'll take the bait.  Re8# is an obvious game ender.
:)  Smart move.  Opening the back door.
Good choice.  The center pawns are more valuable than the side ones--a lesson I learned from your father.
Were now playing a standard knights game and im just going to wait for my opponent to make a mistake. He is a good player and i never underestimate my opponents.
This is where he blunders. I spot a checkmate oppurtunity and i exploit this weakness
But hes not an idiot and we exchange off pieces
I decided to exchange pieces
I now know the game is over. Thankyou for watching i hope you enjoyed the game. The beauty of a move lies not in its appearance but in the thought behind it. - Aaron Nimzowitsch
Oh. White resigns.<n><n> Thanks for reading, hope you enjoyed the game!
He is taking a long time to move at this stage.
Especially on this move. I was expecting Qh3.
I will put my pieces on active posts while black must keep with all threats. Bg4 was not a good choice.
Removing guard of f7, opening exit for rook. I didn't find refutation of the move after the game in books or with Crafty.
My first game against tag1153. Striving to play an open and tactic game.<n><n>(The above note is my thinking at the time playing the game. Notes like this is post-game notes)
Black retakes with the Queen.
A book move for black.
Attacking d4. The Queen have moved three times in the opening. White will soon will have three pieces developed compared to blacks zero...
Black takes the Knight.
And there goes the black Queen. Sanity check. Pluses: White have four pieces developed and owns "the two Bishops" (which is considered worth 0.5 pawns), and owns the d-file. Minuses: White lacks central pawns. <n>Plan: White will have to attack swiftly if he wants to exploit the lead in development.
Opening up for black Bishop and grabbing a piece of the center.
Double up on the d-file. White now has all pieces developed and all are placed centrally.
Black castles and is nicely tucked in behind his pawns and has defendable position. The text enhances the pin on the Knight at f6.<n><n>(This is the position where white has a winning combination... Can you see it? I didn't...  Scroll down for a small hint.<n><n>Hint: One black piece is attacked twice but only defended once...)
Space grabbing with threat. It also breaks the pin on f6. Bravo! But it also opens up the kings defense...
Retreating, giving black the initiative... White did have the choice to trade a Bishop or Knight for two pawns, but didn't think it was a good trade. I expect another space grabbing pawn stab: g4.
But the pawn stab didn't come. That would have weakened the defense to much. Instead black opens up for some reduction in material and attacks the undefended pawn at c4. How can I exploit the fact that Be4 looks overworked? (I.e. it's pinned to the defense of both Nf6 and Rd8.)<n><n>(Blacks bishop is in fact not overworked, as the two guarded pieces are on the same diagonal)
White takes the Knight, but sees a pawn storm on the king side. Black can play d5! before or after trading rooks.<n><n>(This is the position where black misses a winning combination.<n><n>Scroll down for a hint...<n>Hint 1: Whites black Bishop is almost trapped. How can you get to it? You need two moves, and the first needs to be forcing. Scroll down for another hint<n>Hint 2: Push a pawn...)
Pushing the passed pawn with tempo, again...<n><n>(At this point I considered to trade the Bishop for two paws, which still would (most probably) have been a lost game for white. But a bit harder for black. In hindsight I should have tried.)
White will loose a pawn...<n><n>(Here my fingers caught up with my brain and I finally realized I had lost. I resigned.)
This is new! But against the fundamental opening ideas.. we want control of the center!
A very poor developing move.. The bishop is staring at its own color pawn! It's not good here!
Not sure of the purpose of this move.
A sicilian defense. Most popular.
It would be wrong to label this move as just 'bad', but I would never play it because it just wastes time.@slywing but this is not nearly enough to lose a game, even at the grandmasters level. White could probably get a edge in a masters game. I would like to see some of the strongest players on this site get a real advantage from this small move agianst good play. It is not too critical.
The first real mistake of the game. Black was doing fine up til now. This is the kind of move to play in general when the position is open, you have a majority of your forces at the kingside, and they are all at their optimal positions. Preferably, the opponent has very few pieces for defense. It can rarely even be played to just gain an initiative. In those positions, this move often gains a decisive ad, even when no tactical finishes are found, these moves force a win. Instead, in closed positions, with no force to back up the sacrifice, and no way to take the initiative, this is the kind of move weak players make, in attempt to 'open the king'. What they are doing is really 'losing a piece'. As the game continues, white's advantage gets bigger. Black probably could have just castled and had a good game. Be6 is even considerable. Anything but this.
Black tries to justify his previous mistake with another attacking move. This weakens his kingside more than it does to white, and he only has 3 pieces out, when none of them can make any immediate action.
Black hopefully realizes now that he will suffer the rest of the game. Trade pieces when up a lot of material is a good idea.
Black knows he is losing. He has given up on his 'attack' and starts to move on the Q side. It fails.
Gaining Q side space. A good move.
repetitive, but white was afraid of counters like Qb3. @gcah. Your analysis is generally correct. Howver, when I gain a huge advantage, I like to skip the rough analysis in positions where my opponent has no tactical threats and only minor nuisances, and get rid of all of them. It takes less brainpower and effort, and can be fairly enjoyable. But your line wins fast.
Sure enough, black plays the checkmate and lets out a sigh of relief while white tears his hair in frustration. White had a massive positional and material ad, while black was completely lost. <n>Going back a few moves, white could have proceeded with Kh2 to safety the pawn and then continue with Qh5 back. Black's position is devoid of plan. The lesson is, whenever you make a move, always check IS IT SAFE TACTCIALLY? <n>The vast majority of players under 1500 USCF/ 1400FIDE rating do not consistently check for tactics, and if the position is tactical, they just might blunder the game in one move. If you are like that, then checking for tactics every move will bring you up a lot. REal positional chess matters little until you are an expert. If someone had the tactical skill of a world champion, but the positional knowledge of a weak club player, they could make it to top 1000 in the nation, probably much better. Once I did this, my rating went up a few hundred points in a few weeks.
Black has lost a pawn but has the ability to develope the centre pieces more quickly.
!! <n>Forking the undefended black queen and king whilst also attacking with the White Queen.<n><n>The game is lost.
{Game 165  (mrtoduvet vs. yorugua088) yorugua088 checkmated
Tal kicks things off with the Reti opening
and now Keller accepts the gambit pawn - but it seems risky when played against Tal! :P Accepting the gambit pawn in the Queen's Gambit will most often lead to White getting a significant spatial advantage over Black, and White gets more opportunities for an attack. Add Tal's sacrificial nature to that and Black has reason to be afraid. Very, very afraid...
!? Tal wants to open up the game, or at least the d-file, with this move. However...
Keller accepts the sacrifice - but how will Tal follow up? He has no pieces beyond the third rank, and Keller has plenty of pieces around his king for defence
Keller is quick to get his king off the open file as soon as possible... but how about cxb2? The end result is similar to what transpires in the game - 18...cxb2 19.Rab1 Kc8 20.Rxb2 - but Keller keeps the extra pawn... but would the threat of doubling up on the b-file not be worth it? Perhaps Keller thought about that possibility, or perhaps he was much more concerned about his king... but this was what made Tal's play so formidable. Quite a few of his sacrifices were, in fact, unsound, but for his opponent, it would become extremely hard to find the correct refutation, especially under tournament conditions.
The fact that this pawn has survived for this long is remarkable, and the reason why it can't be taken now is... well, I don't know. I can't even find the move after the capturing of the pawn; the game continuation [Bg4+] doesn't work, because from what I can see, it can be safely taken. I can't see how Tal can get an advantage out of the pawn capture - and that's just for the bishop capture! It's all over my head!
!!? But what about this move? It's incredible - Tal's bishop is already hanging, and now Tal nonchalantly throws in his knight as well, while at the same time opening up an attack on the queen and bishop. Taking the knight in this position gives back the pawn - 22...axb5 23.Qxb5+, and Tal captures a bishop next move - he has free choice between the bishop on c5 and d5.
?? The wrong recapture for Keller! The alternate capture with the rook leads to this crazy line; 25...Rxe4! 26. Nd4+ Nb4 27. Qd7+! Qc7 28. Rxb4+! Bxb4 29. Qd5+! Kb8 30. Qxe4 Bxe7 31. Nc6+ Kb7 32. Nxe7+ Ka7 33. Nc6+ Kb7 34. Nb4+ Kb8 35. Qxh7 [this is not my analysis, by the way - another user on chessgames.com, where I found this game, had displayed this line.] From this line, I cannot tell who has chances of winning - perhaps it's a draw? With the move played in-game, Keller thinks that this move, which attacks b1 and defends c6, is strong... [the fen notation of the final position in the analysis above can be found in the comments]
! This double-check is even stronger! Tal wins the queen on e4
Queen develops in opening, not so good
In this game I lose to stonni, only a few minor mistakes by white shows how black can encounter a powerful four pawns attack in the King's indian.
The game opening is E76 King's Indian, Four Pawns Attack. This opening gains much space for White. Black needs to respond to avoid losing the center.
Black is now turning the game and can force White to defend at the h file, while the a pawn is marching, supported by the black King.
Now black has two pawns more. The last phase of the fight begins.
at this moment i saw the discover attack and was kicking myself for not seeing it
that move simultaneously lost the game with a three move forced checkmate (this time i am certain) and didn't take a free piece with the queen<n><n>also in the entire game only two of my opponents pieces (excluding pawns) were moved off their original square the knight and the king
what a finish, four developed pieces checkmating the king while he is in the middle of the board and each piece is necessary
Generally, I play 3. Bc4. However, I recently lost a few games with Evans Gambit and Guioco Piano openings so I decided to change this game. I didn't realise until after I played my move that it was the same opening that we played in our previous game or I may well have avoided it.
20. axb3 largely because rook pawns are harder to promote in an end game, should I get a passed pawn on that side.
... which I immediately force him onto. As with our other annotated game, I've managed to force an advantage in the endgame that has given me an advantage. This time, I've forced his black king away from the action and have got my king very active itself. I must concede though, it is still very much heading for a draw at the minute.
I 'settled' on this move here - I really couldn't decide what my best move was and lumped with this to try and make it tough for Black's king to get out of the corner. Maybe Kd3 was a slightly better alternative?
This is the first mistake from my opponent in the endgame. I have to commend my opponent as by saving his f-pawn, he is clearly showing that he is trying to win the game. However, it is in vain and 54. h4 would have given him an easy draw.
From this position, I am very confident I will get a draw minimum. Black's pawns are lined up, his king placed in front of them and my king has arrived on the scene.
This is the killer move for White here. This looks like a position one might consider zugzwang, with all of black's moves making his position worse. 1) 58... Kh5 59. Kh3 f3 60. Rf5 Kg6 61. Kg4 h3 62. Rxf3 h2 62. Rh3 and White wins. The win in the next position is a bit more subtle. 2) 58... h3 59. Kh2 Kh4 60. Ra4!! (White wants to play Ra3 but needs a waiting move, and this stops Black from playing g4.) 60... Kg4 61. Ra3!... and White wins the h-pawn.
This gives White quite an easy time, I think.
My opponent resigned here... it was an interesting game that I don't feel I played great in, but I enjoyed playing the endgame... it was only two errors in judgment of position, that led to Black trying to force a win that helped me to get the win in this game. I hope you all enjoy analysing another game with an interesting endgame and I look forward to your comments.
Sicilian Defense.
Development would be better in this position.
As I said before black was hoping for f6, but I've mentioned how to parry the threat.
I gain a tempo on blacks queen.. The queen might end up trapped if black isn't careful
Damn! He dosent fall for it
The beginning of the Najdorf Sicilian
I've lost a tempo and gained nothing.
Black sacrifices his knight for two pawns.
White resigns checkmate is not far away.
Qa5 - not sure if this is a good move
While Qe3 pins the rook - did not see the check/attack on the rook - should have traded queens
He takes the bishop but gives me checkmate
I think I'm worried about Nf6, as it might attract e5.  The problem here is that it hinders black's development opportunities.
Black opts to trade.
Black is happy here with stacked pawns in the castle, so far so good.
On the one hand, this puts pressure on the king and sets up some late-game possibilities (which, in this game, actually worked), but I wonder if this was too rash of a response to the impending black attack.  Qe2 would have been sufficient.
I thought I saw a mate opportunity ...<n>22.	Rc-e1 	d4<n>23.	Nxd3 	Qc6 <n>24.	Rf3 	Qxf3#<n>CHECKMATE !
Normally, I wouldn't trade when behind, but I don't think another option existed at this point.
Why trade when you're behind?  Bad move for black.
Smart check as it prevents any immediately possibility of black getting pieces into better position.
A masterful turn of events for white.  I'll speed things along now in the annotation.
Morphy Defense, standard reply.
5. ... Nxe4 is the Open Defense, I play the standard reply.
6. ... exd4 is the inferior Riga Variation.
8. Nxd4 is good here, but I found this in the GK DB and thought it would be fun too. Follows the "don't move the same piece twice" opening principle.
A nice little sacrifice. White attacked the bishop twice, but it was defended twice. While the black queen stood at g6, she defended e8, and this sacrifice would have failed. But she went gallivanting off to the far side of the board, and now e8 is weak, and the sacrifice works.
Black resigned rather than sacrifice his lovely bride with 26. ... Qe4, 27. Qxe4#.
Black should have tried to exchange the queens with Qh5, but white has g4. Interesting to look deeper.
Black defends.
This is a good move, and incidentally prevents me to play Nxc4.
Yes, but it's too late.
I recover the piece and I win the game. Note the knight can't check me.
You missed the incoming combo. In fact this move makes it worse.
His pieces are still very far away. Time to set up my attack. Here not only do I defend the Bishop but I move my Rook in line with the King.
Modern defense.
...and we swap, opening up the d-file...
...but he pushes it.
..so I attack his c-3 pawn...
...but he pushes his rook too far...
...but is lost to the pawn...
He moves his bishop to attack my knight, no doubt hoping to win it, and make a net gain...
...while my e-pawn advances...
...my e-pawn would make sure it wasn't in vain.
Hi everyone!<n><n>After a two week holiday in sunny Weymouth (including a day trip to Jersey) I have now returned back to Cambridge and Gameknotland.  Time to catch up on some annotating.  I have a series of victories to annotate and this is the first of them.  Gameknot analysis is provided here. http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=16113581&fb=1&rnd=0.44279073601021224.  The game starts as a Sicilian Defense and comes to a sudden, violent, end.
21. Bd2 - at last, I complete my development on move 21.  The downside of pawn grabbing in the opening or early middle game means that you waste a tempo in getting your pieces out which can in some cases prove very costly to the grabber.  Thankfully it did not do this in this case.
Another two interesting tactical situation, one in the middle game and another in a pretty uncommon ending, that I handled very, very badly.
Attacking inmediately. I've seen this move on DB and it is in the spirit of the London system. Probably is a bad one, tough... :-)
Why this retirement? It "saves" me from defending. After f4xe3, Bxe3, Nf4 would have put me in troubles. now he can play Bf5, placing it in a very good square...
At last! But now it's my turn...
Second minor interesting tactical position. I recover my pawn, and it looks not a bad idea to have a free passed pawn in the center. But the black a pawn will prove to be very strong, too.
Bird's opening, not my favorite, suggesting a weaker king's side...
Black aims at kind of Stonewall in the centre...
Did white think of this? I don't think so:)
This is my norm opening, I decided not to change this as it is my fave. Those of you who know me is I don't like boring openings which in my opinion is almost everything apart from 1.e4. After 1.e4 there are loads of fun and wild gambits! In thi game you'll see one of them.
This is my favourite response as it lets me play my fave opening, which you will see. There are many other responses, 1...e6 (yawn) 1.c6 (solid and I sometimes play it but it is boring) 1...c5 Sicilian well if this happens I'll play the Smith morra Gambit.
The Italian game. An old opening that is now thought to be rather dull and boring. Black now has two main options here 3....Bc5 the Giuoco Piano or 3... Nf6 The Two Knight's Defence. The Italian game can evolve into the romantic Evans Gambit if 3...Bc5 then 4. b4!?(This is a very nice gambit which I have a few annotated games of "Naval Intelligence" a very nice little game!.)
This is the Evans Gambit. This romantic gambit has proven to be greatly resilient to modern technology, while it is not generally thought of as a path to advantage it hasn't been refuted(correct me if I'm wrong).The idea of this opening is to gain momentum while opening the centre., this is often at the expense of a pawn or two.For this reason this line of the Guoco Piano has often attracted attention from more aggressive players and and will probably continue to do so in the future. Even Garry Kasparov found the opening worth playing a few times.  He even used it to beat none other than ANAND! Pretty good surprise weapon,no?
It is often said that the way to refute a gambit is to accept it. Black grabs a pawn so as to have the option of uploading it in a later stage in the game in order to neutralize whites resulting initiative.
Black takes the pawn a common effective move.
! I decide Morphy's dynamic logical approach. It is often thought by beginners that when you have gambited a pawn you need to attack and mate as soon as possible with out developing there pieces, this often results in a failed attack. Morphy believed that all pieces should be involved in an attack. This seems subtle and lets Black off the hook because it is too quiet but it builds up my forces for my attack.
? This move looks like a good developing move however it is one of the traps of Morphy's continuation. This leaves Black in trouble, this will show you why. People really stop falling for this trap against me because whenever they play this horrible move they always lose.
?? This fails completely as you will see, however this move is the only move possible.
? think this was a poor attemt at an interference move. As you will see it doesn't interfere with my invisible attack for long!
Checkmate! This game shows the effectiveness of gambits especiaklly in Blitz games where Black often seems to get disorientated in the wild position and goes pawn grabbing. The answer to my question 'Do Pesky Pawngrabbers Prosper?' Answer: 'No!!!!!!!!!!' I hope you liked this game. I'm happy for positive and negative feedback aslong as its constructive criticism! and feel free to leave comments. Thanks to the player i played this game, i couldn't  of done it without you! One thing I would like you to do is before you rate this game please think honestly and think how I can improve on it and leave comments and PM me with them. Don't just give one and a half stars and not tell me why.<n>Thanks<n>Tom
First, I would say the score is not the reality of this game. I was outplayed all the game.
I had annotated in the same time i played the moves. I don't move the pieces to work visualization, i don't use a computer, so all can be totally wrong. ______ About analysis the game, in post-mortem, i try to look :<n>__1.opening<n>Who know the most theoretical moves ? if not me i have to work the opening.<n> __ <n>2. Middle game<n>Did i seen the opponent threat on each moves ?<n>Did i had a plan ?<n> __ <n>3.Ending<n>Did i had a plan ?<n>Did i know the technique needed ?<n> __ <n>4.Other<n>Where is the/a turn of the game Find my mistakes (strategy ? tactics ? ) and study the weakness.<n>? <n>Which move i would like to take back ?<n>Which move i am glad to had played ?
The end of this thematic tournament. Glad to play in because i learn this opening.
This time i try a no king side attack rush __ POST-MORTEM, the turn of the game. And also the move i would like to takeback. Probably Qe2 and not Qc2, but i don't know if there is a " theory about ". So the stonewall middle game is where i have to learn.
POST-MORTEM, this is the move i am glad (not so much because i don't think i have other choice)
The opening is called "The Grand Prix Attack." The point of it is to launch a hard-hitting attack on the king side. Black expertly avoids this however.
This move transfered out of opening book, ending my attack.  It was a great move by black, and transfered the game into a closed posistion.
A great move! I didn't see this one coming and took a long time to analyze my way out of it.
Here neither side can pull out a win, so we agreed to a draw.  It was an amazing game by both sides, and one of the toughest games I've played here on GameKnot. Great game henrycrun!
3. ...  Nd4!? last time when i have encountered this variation i have been trapped.. and i lost the game..
10. Nc3!? is a good move to prepare for a check in d5..and probably have a mate in the later game.
this position was very brilliant..
Now black has removed most of the pressure
I think there is little choice to play the exchange, this is quite awkward for white, as the defences are stretched very thin to look after the pawns because of their poor structure.
This is presumably expecting a simple exchange of queens, but after 24. Rxd7 , 24... Bxd7 25. Rxd7  and 26. Rxb7 seems reasonable for white - there is also a lot more pressure on the black position.<n><n>The alternative, 24... Qxd7, allows 25. Qxa8 which evens out material. This game is as sharp as any I have had going in team games so far.
But black is not.
my standard attacking opening
The preacher has left the church
And I'll Huff And I'll Puff AND I'll BLOW YOUR ROOK DOWN!
oh yeah, but first your going have to make it back to Home Sweet Home and I don't tihnk the Saints of Los Angelas are on your side this time!
zap, there's a good queen, Comet. Good game jckflash. Thanks yer all' fer comin' Gatorwarrior
Standard development.
And checkmate. It is quite nice to see the minor pieces get a mate while the queen is sacked, when normally it is the other way round. To avoid this position, instead of taking the queen, black should take the knight on e5 with his knight.
Opening a line for his QB to join the fray.
Seeking shelter amidst the clutter on the K-side.
Black chooses the Philidor Defense, less popular for sure.
Recently a friend uncovered in his basement an old chess club magazine which had been gathering dust for a good twenty years. It contained my  first game in the Belgian inter-club competition. The game itself also originated in a basement, so truly a case of "Cellar Chess"! The cause of this unusual playing venue was an administrative oversight: Our club (KGSRL) was at that time the largest club of Belgium and brought 13 teams to the inter-club competition. The request to have only half of the teams play at home on any competition day was not taken into account in the schedule and so some 130 players came together in the clubhouse when we played home. The teams in first division played upstairs and the teams from the lowest echelons had to play in the cellar... Best of were the guys playing in 4th division: they got to play in the bar.
Controlling d5 and preparing a queen side expansion with b5
The white pieces are concentrating on the black king.
This time the queen sacrifice was easy to see, checkmate next move 30. Bxf7 31. Rxf7#. Notice the unusual grouping of pieces around the black king after 31. Rxf7#: All pieces except the white king have gathered around him.
Another check and the end of this game.
This is an interesting game. My opponent plays the opening fine. I am just getting to the end of my opening database line, when he makes a mistake. The first move of the combination is not original. Although he has an equal position after 12 moves, mistakes on move 13, 14, 16 and 17 lead to a hopeless position. My opponent resigns rather than prolonging the agony.
This variation quickly regains the pawn for white.
Sensible development.
This is thematic, striking at the centre.
This is again often played in this variation.
According to the Gameknot World Opening database, this is the most common move in the variation. White prepares to temporarily sacrifice a pawn.
This is a mistake. This same mistake was made in Colin, Vincent (2396) vs. Mercier, Jean Loup (2056). It seems to me that this move just drops a pawn, and although black can regain it, white has an initiative. However, Gameknot post-match analysis surprisingly doesn't give it as a mistake. Anyway, stop and find white's best move now.
Did you find it. This is as played in Colin, Vincent (2396) vs. Mercier, Jean Loup (2056), which continued with Ne5 15. Bd3 Nxd3 16. Rxd3 Bb7 17. h3 Rad8 18. Rc1	Qb8 19. e4	Nh5 20. Rdd1 Nf4 21. Qe3 Ng6 22.	Ne2	Qa8 23. Rd4 Ne5 1-0<n>Gameknot computer reckons Ne5 15. Rac1 Nxf3+ 16. Qxf3 Bxh2+ 17. Kh1 Bb7 18. Nd5 Bxd5 19. Rxd5 Nxd5 20. Rxc7 Bxc7 21. Bd3 Rfd8 22. Qe4 g6 is the best continuation for both sides.
This is a losing mistake. Gameknot reckons best for black is  Qe7 17. Qf3 Nd5 18. e4 Nf6 19. Rac1 Ra6 20. Bxf6 Qxf6 21. Qxf6 gxf6 22. Nc7 Rb6 23. Ng4 Kg7 with advantage to white. OK stop and find black's best move.
His queen has been lost and his position is hopeless. He resigned. Many thanks for reading. Please leave a comment or two and rate the annotation on the star system, to let me know how I am getting on. Until next time dear reader!
Hi everyone!<n><n>This game started off as a Dutch Defense in a thematic mini-tournament.  This resulted in closed positional play right until the latter part of the middlegame where I managed to win a pawn and go into an endgame with a pawn up.  You would think this ought to have been a straightforward win, wouldn't you?  Well, not quite - let's throw some opposite coloured bishops into the mix and things were not as straightforward as they seemed, even when I increased the advantage to that of two pawns the graffiti on my wall was reading "Low Draw".  However, before hitting that Offer Draw button, I decided to have one last throw of the dice but did it pay off?  Well, in order to find out you will have to read on ......
1. ..... f5 - this is the Dutch Defense and I have had mixed results with this opening.  It looks as though I will be leaving Henry exposed on the Fool's Mate diagonal, but in order for my opponent to plonk the Wicked Witch of the West on the h5 square, it is not as simple as it first seems.
4. ..... g6 - this position is getting to be a little stonewallesque.  It sometimes leaves me really stuck for ideas and this is how I end up getting bogged down in the middle game.
22. ..... Bf7 - one move ago, white played the seemingly strong f4.  However, this has left Roger with a backward e pawn and now I sneakily discover an attack on it.  Glenda is getting her broomstick ready ......
40. ..... Re6 - protecting the vulnerable c6 pawn, but for how long?
60. Ke4?? - I think this is the loser.  Next move I play my winner - c5!
63. .... Kxe6 - Henry snaps off Roger's final pawn and now three pawns down Roger decides to hit the resign button.  Here are his post game comments: "In my white game, disregarding the computer analysis, the move I thought lost it for me was #53. Instead of h5, I should have moved my K to Ke2. This would have stopped you B from guarding the diagonal including h6 for my advancing pawn. Of course, being several pawns down was a killer in end game". He will not be able to stop Glenda from appearing on either c1 or a1.  That's all for now folks but I will be back with another endgame where I have had to deal with stubborn resistance in a rook ending from a Class C Player by the name of Dan.  Until then have a good read and a nice weekend - Kind regards - Joanne
Ive seen this response as black a few times, not sure what its called, but I think its a scandinavian defence?. I can see its aimed at stunting my progress into the centre with d4
I normally play an Itallian opening, which has worked ok for me, but i wanted to try getting both of my knights out into the centre before i developed my bishops
takes the bait
?this move was aimed at a few different senarios - both as you will see didnt work too well, but i was hoping for 18.b5 19.c4xb5, axb5 20.QxR8. At the end of the day i wanted to try and bust up some holes and saw c5 as a vulnerable hole and went for it
I didnt miss it. I was excited about how I played my end game thus i wanted to try an annotation. As i have said earlier, this is my first annotation so constructive comments are appreciated. I purposely removed my opponents name from this annotation as I dont agree with publicly annotating a game when i dont have the permission from my opponent, so in respect for my opponent i maintain his annominity.
Black plays the classical response to 1. e4. By mirroring White's move Black has guaranteed himself an equal share of the centre and scope to develop his pieces. 1...e5 is one of the few moves that directly interferes with White's plan of playing d4.
Is the natural move, combining defence of the pawn with control of the d4 square and refusing to commit another pawn. The extent of this move's popularity is such that the typical player of 2. Nf3 as White is already thinking beyond it to their third move, safe in the knowledge that any variation by Black will play into their hands.<n><n>White has multiple choices here which can lead to very different games. 3. Bb5 (Ruy Lopez) is the most played. White puts pressure on the knight defending the pawn. I was thinking of 3. d4 (Scotch) because my opponent wanted a "Fast correspondence game" and 3. d4 is aggressive but decided against it as I have not played it in a very long time...not seriously anyways...
The Berlin Defence!?!?!, 3...Nf6, has long had a reputation for solidity and drawishness and is sometimes called "the Berlin Wall". This was not what I expected considering they wanted this game to be a SPEED GAME! If he wanted fast and some action why did he not take 3. ... a6  so might be able to follow 4. Bxc6 (Ruy Lopez Exchange Variation) or any other line for that matter?
He already went with the Berlin Defence line in this so called "Speed Correspondence Game" and now...he closes it!?!?! He could have played the solid 4...Nxe4 or the more combative 4...Bc5 (the Berlin Classical Variation), but no...I am stuck trying to hurry through ...sharp lines...open it up...anything... cause he wants to be done in an hour!
I brought the rook over generally to support my coming f and e pawn pushes that I hope are coming...no real depth of play other than in the vague visions provided by just a couple moves thought. Blacks pushing the c pawn was lost on me and I spent little time on it because it gave me my first choice of direction...a Queen Side attack
lol normal opening so far
whats this very unusual
?<n>White missed 19 Qh6! g6 20 Rh4 g5 21 Rg4 Be4 22 Bf3 Bg6 (all Black's moves are forced) 23 Bxa8 Rxa8 24 Qxg5 then if Qxb2 25 h4 Qxa2 26 h5 +-
22 Rxf5 Rd2 23 Rf2 Rad8 24 Re4 Rd1+ 25 Rf1 R1d2 26 Ref4 +=<n>I wanted to avoid this for fear of the Black rook on my 2nd rank but it seems fine because of the counter-threats
Cambridge Springs Defense (or less commonly, the Pillsbury Variation) is a variation of the Queen's Gambit Declined. Black breaks the pin  on the h4-d8 diagonal and forms a pin of his own on the c3 knight (exploiting the absence of the queen's bishop from the queen side). If Black later plays dxc4, there may be threats against the g5 bishop. The first recorded instance of this opening was played by Emanuel Lasker in 1892. The name derives from a 1904 tournament in Cambridge Springs, Pennsylvania in which the defense was used several times. Practitioners of the opening have included Efim Bogoljubov, Vasily Smyslov, and Garry Kasparov.<n><n>The line remains popular among amateurs because there are several traps White must avoid.
White takes the bishop out of the X-ray attack of Black's queen. This is one of the traps of Cambridge Springs defense.
Black is exchanging pieces to relieve his cramped position.
Black has solved his opening problems by exchanging pieces and his c8 bishop can develop freely. The opening phase is over and White has the advantage of central pawn majority and his Rooks and Queen are better placed than Black's pieces. White King has not castled as yet.
Capa is one pawn plus and let us see how he exploits this tiny advantage.
Look at the 7th rank domination by White's Queen and Rook. Black can resign now. <n><n>We can see the logical flow in this game. In the opening, aim is to control the center. In the middle game, aim is to dominate the center and open lines to attack the opponent's King. In the end, dominate the 7th rank. Looks like a text book game. My guess is many Chess principles of today were authored after studying Steinitz, Lasker and Capablanca's games.
Alekhine resigns. The simplicity of this game is amazing. A powerful, attacking, all time great player like Alekhine is reduced to a spectator.
?? So what's this?
White immediately challenges Black's center. It should be noted that White has so far done an excellent job of remaining flexible. This game could transition into QGD or QGA territory, or into Sicilian lines still. This game remains very open ended.
I try hard not to do this when I annotate, but I'm going to step into my personal feelings about the game from behind the Black pieces rather than be objective for just a second.<n><n>I am a fairly conservative player who likes to keep opening lines fairly fixed. The way White has played until now was driving me absolutely crazy because there was no guarantee as to which opening the game would move into.<n><n>So, Black decides to eliminate the QG lines and the English lines. Of course, White still has the option of guiding the game into tons of other openings, and things that resemble other openings. White is still very flexible.
Now White has really committed to an opening. This is called the Maroczy Bind for White. Black's specific line of the Sicilian here is the Accelerated Dragon.<n><n>White's control of the light squares will cause Black a lot of trouble trying to get his light-squared Bishop into an effective position. Normally, in the Accelerated Dragon, Black has enough trouble with that, but with a Maroczy Bind, it becomes and absolute nightmare.
This is now book Accelerated Dragon against the Maroczy Bind.
Black decides to begin to do the same for his pieces. However, his minor pieces are chained to the defense of the kingside, so the effect of his optimally placed pieces will be considerably less than White's pieces' effect. This is one of the key elements of the Maroczy Bind if Black doesn't manage to break it down (or in this case Black doesn't even try to break it down).
White continues to increase the value of his pieces. If this were a video I would make all of the arrows from White's pieces into Black's kingside, but since I can't you'll have to imagine them. The Rook on h1 influences the entire h-file. The two Bishops and the Queen pressure virtually every diagonal leading into the Black camp (notice that the light-squared Bishop is going to facilitate g4 after Rg1 (after Rg1 notice the new imaginary arrow pointing directly at the Black King)). White's attack is swelling to unbelievable strength.
Black ignores White's threat. He prepares to double his Rooks on the b-file and create an invasion of his own. However, I think that it would come just too late. If 16. Rdg1 Rgb8 17. b3! and Black's attack is stopped for long enough for White to start his own.
Now we can see the tension between the Queens that I mentioned at the beginning. Though it would have been possible for the game to finish without this tension ever having been exploited, it was one of the subtleties of the position.
Black sees an interesting tactic where he at least wins a piece after 19. ...Qxc2  20. Kxc2 Rxb2  21. Kd3 (21. Kc1 is what happened in the game) Bf5  22. Kc4 Rc8  23. Bc5 Rc2
Now White can only sacrifice minor pieces to postpone his execution, so he resigned.<n>0-1
I was thinking to myself that this position is very promising for both camp. black has more space, but white has the two bishops well placed, with a lot of possible discoveries.
maybe I shouldn't have played this, but I really planned the next moves here.
underestimated this. rook has no escape
I don't know what I was thinking with this move.  I hung my knight, and I this gave his queen a relatively unimpeded path into my interior lines.  Instead I should have castled queen side.
Game is effectively over at this point.  I could have resigned here.
I don't know its name, but it has not betrayed me yet. No danger in d5... but I never actually faced it.
If white takes back with the pawn, it opens a nice attack on the dark squares. It will not damage white, but he'd have to play defensively. So I'd suggest Nxd4 instead. Of course, it lets the way open for e5-d5 from black's side.
I got rid of his Bpair, I still have strenght on the dark squares and the B, and white has to spend tempoes for developing, just as me. It's not "his game" anymore.
...g4 is a threat, as the N has no squares. And it grabs space, while my K is in the center, but well protected for the time being.
? A waste of a move, following a simple exchange game with no... well, let's see.
...and here it comes his attack. I won't lose time.
Now, this is the position which I saved the game for. Can white win or not?
I'm playing horribly, but I have just 2-3 seconds per move.
I see Black side is bit aggressive !
Also I can see that Black side is also having precautions.
Black side is moving nicely and trying to get more pieces and it seems it is working.
It is done. Black is victorious here !
my typical opening.
down 3 points and position....my situation is not looking as well....he opened his queen rank as well for an attack.  He has control of this game.
protected the pawn, but lost my ability to castle with this move.  Another good play by hopewell.
nothing changes for awhile...the game continues....
it didn't work.
Check!  He won't let me make it!
check again--black's best bet is to keep me in check hoping to pick off pieces...we can see both sides of this situation being played out--there are two specific goals in mind--mine is to defend my remaining pieces, his is to attack and pick off my pieces.  May the best man win!
check......if I moved to b4--it would have been game....his bishop and queen are too powerful--the best bet is b6 (behind my pieces).  However, I block off my pawn by doing so.
Rf8!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  This amazing move puts his king in check and allows me to move forward my pawn for a queen the next move!!!  This double-edged move gives the full advantage back to me.
he doesn't protect the queen.....the best move here would have been the exchange....I think he realizes whatever the case, it is a lost cause.  The best he can hope for now is a draw.
Chess opening: French (C00), Labourdonnais variation
And no, not Qxd5, way to passive for my liking, this most of the time gives a much nicer game to play.
3.... e6!, the Icelandic gambit, an awesome gambit with great attacking lines for black and white has to defend real secure to keep his pawn up and don't lose material.
He does however not accept and with Nc3 I will start the trade.
And my opponent takes on f8, it doesn't seem the strongest move, as my bishop isn't really playing and so he takes out an 'inactive' piece. I would've taken the knight on b3 to get the active knight and bishop back for my queen.
missing the last threat in the game.
um this is not a silican!
hopfully i can get this game back
darn it he moved his pawn all my ideas are gone. probably should have killed the queen.
I'm kinda unsure what to play against the Najdorf. This is the move I have traditionally played in blitz games, but I have tested 6.Be3 as well.
This is a somewhat unusual move order. Usually black plays 8...Qc7. In this game this is merely a transpose of moves, but white could have tried to take advantage out of this move with 9.Bc4. That move seems to have scored quite well in practice.
Natural move, but it appears that the strongest continuation is 23...exf4 24.Nd5 Bb5!(!) denies any White advantage. I had, of course, missed this move as I believe my opponent did, too. I only considered queen moves, and given that it must guard the c4-knight, Nxe7 wins another tempo. 23...Bf8 was the move I was waiting, whereupon the unexpected 24.Rd4! (Ne5 Rb4!) seemed like a good idea.
Team match. For my white game, I open with the King's Pawn.
Philidor's Defense, an irregular defense where black's queen's pawn push to d6 defends his KP and frees his QB, though blocking his KB and allowing white some ground in the centre. I respond with the main line, staking my claim on the center.
Nd7 is a traditional Hanham move, marking this as the Hanham variation of the Philidor. The advantage is defense of e5 while ensuring that trading pawns in the center doesn't give white an opportunity to exchange queens..
Threatens mate in 1 if black is foolish enough to play 15. ... dxe4. I suppose black is feeling the pressure of being attacked by 5 pieces while he only has 1 defender developed (the distant knight on b6 is little help at the moment).
Black stalls, but nothing is changed.
Now the exposed king has nowhere to hide. White has a significant material lead, so black dare not step onto the d-file with his king, for Rd1 will skewer and win the black queen, and while black may eventually flee to temporary safety on the queenside, his material shortcoming would ensure a hopeless endgame.
An "Italian game", which we might expect from Italian masters, playing in Rome...
(?) Very risky, as black comes in for a savage attack.  "Normal" here is 5....Na5, turning the opening into a gambit.  Black gets good play and quick development in the sequel.  Also interesting are 5...Nd4 and 5...b5, both of which lead to intriguing play for both sides.
Three years before this game, Giannuzio recommended this as White's best here, a view endorsed by Greco in 1619... No one has since expressed a contrary view so far as I know.
The pressure on Black's centre - and, since he's entangled in it, the Black King - has become enormous.  Black's answer is a counterattack.
(1-0) Black resigned the game as lost at this point.  If 21...Qd2 22.Qxh4ch Ke8 (or ...Kf8) 23.Rd6 is curtains.  Otherwise, 21...Qh5 22.g4 traps the queen.<n>*** This note turns out to be not quite correct.  Check out "Comments" IAD.
second : now i'm ready. This is a little trapp. 2087 elo should see it, but mlaybe he is thinking that with a 1451 elo it will be easy...
I might be lost with Bg7xd4+, but now i have tempo
mate. I hope you appreciate this anotation of a "non serious" game. Bst rgrds denis
Ok, my h3 pawn is threatened, but I have my pawn win waiting for me too.
Let's see. I said "no" to the tactic line. Your turn to do something. This is an antinatural strategy I won't recommend, but in this case, it is stupid to go into a tactic you spotted if you realize it won't work. I'll accept the return of a pawn, and will go Na3, Nc4 as planned. g5 is not a concern after Nxg5, RxN (or QxR+), BxR, fxB, Qh5+, followed by choice between going on with checks or play b3, stopping black.
This puts him in troubles with his dsb: how to defend it? I would have gone Rh7. With no white's lsb, it's the best place.
I know I'll receive a strong attack, but I also have some tricks in my sleeve.
...but you have to see the good side of everything.
This doesn't stop Rhxd5, but if this is played, I'll have Qg8+, winning black's lsb.
...and I force a draw. But it was my opponent's turn to blunder.
I'm sorry for this ignominious finale. But the midgame was whorth it, I hope. Thanks for reading!
The opening is standard fare.
To my surprise, White allows the exchange of Q's. One very major piece for each side leaves the board, simplifying the position.
I lock the Q-side, where I have a protected passed Pawn.
With four pieces left for each side, there's still the possibility of complications. I add extra defenses to the King's wing.
Even in endgames you see the struggle for a tempo at times. I simply mark time here.
I see a chance to simplify down while maintaining my material advantage. The passed Pawn is bait...
Now all the pieces are gone and my extra Pawn is an enormous advantage. White's K has to defend both flanks.
The most recent game between my friend Jo and myself was instructive and worth annotating. Jo started with a Bird's opening.
Here Black has only a pawn advantage but has an overwhelming positional and developmental advantage.
hmm, i like it when my opponent gives king's gambit option.
This is the alternative to Rb1.  Rb1 stops the knight being taken because the opening of the b file is very powerful and so that black queen goes to a6, this brings the knight out of danger with tempo.  The black queen now has the option of b5, and the value of white's knight is unclear, it might be out on the rim but it might be a useful piece in an attack as black has a lot of potential weaknesses.
Questioning the pawn, if it takes (or stays where it is) white opens the a file and if it advances Nc3 comes with tempo on the black queen.
! This queen sacrifice opens up lines while getting a defended pawn on the seventh, black gets two pieces for the queen, but the pawn on b7 will be a huge threat, and the fewer pieces in front of black's king the looser Kramnik's queenside looks.
And not only does the b file get opened, but it comes with tempo!
A rook retreat is met Rfb1.  This move brings the h8 rook into the defense of b8 and covers d4, but the b file has not been covered, however how could he cover it?  The position is shattering and I don't believe black has a way out.
Notice that Ba3 would have trapped(!) the black queen, he gives it breathing room.
And black resigned in light of being hopelessly lost.  41... Kb8 walks into a wind mill and 41... Kd8 42.Rd1  Qd2 (42... Ke8 43.Bxf7  Kf8 44.Re8#) is simply lost, he's down two bishop after his queen is taken (sadly, white doesn't have 43.Rh1 because of 43... Rxf6  44.Bxf6 Kxc7).  Kamsky pulled off this win by giving up his queen for two pieces in order to place a dominating pawn on b7 with two very long scoped bishops supporting it that together dominated the board, not only that but he opened the a and b files to great effect, in the botvinnik black has very loose pawns one of white's goals is to open up files, 16.Rb1 goes for that but 16.Na4 followed by a3 is another completely viable and very dangerous plan.  I think the most remarkable thing about this game is that black got no counterplay (except his slight prayer for a perpetual at the end) in one of the most dicey and counterattacking openings, white's queen sacrifice tied Kramnik down completely.  Kudos to Kamsky.  if you have any comments or variations, I'd love to hear it.  I'm never sure how many variations to stick in, and when to stick to descriptions.
I plump for the Sicilian, i find it pretty flexible and is probably my fav to play as black...
So i make room for my Qbishop and also attack his. Notice how i still haven't committed to castling yet on either side, hopefully this serves as a source of a little annoyance to my opponent.....
What the hell, it is annoying...
I see...
Not the move i would have played....
I was flabbergasted when i logged on and saw this move, but i see why. My opponent must have anticipated Qg6+ totally missing the real threat.....
And there it is, at the time of playing i was pretty happy with this win, having gone back through it my opponent made some pretty bad choices along the way but unless i hadn't made the right choices then this game wouldn't have been such a easy win...So hey ho, i've annotated it now so it's going out!<n><n>Cheers.
1. .... d5 - opens up a line for Fou Leblanc onto that pawn on g4.  It looks a little vulnerable.  Easy19, aka the Master Mater, is not afraid to play the Grob.  He has tried it against me and won.  I must make sure that I do not fall to a calamity here.  In this game, Henry has a 19 rating point bounty on his head!
19. .... Nxd4 - although there is no mate in the offing, Jerry decides to wave the white flag as he is now 11 points down on material.  It is an interesting opening and now will come the first of two correspondence games which are not from Gameknot but from the THEM series that Freddy the Master Mater also plays in.  My opponent is chessmaniac (Guy Shelmerdine).  We started that THEM tournament via e-mail but then, after Guy joined Gameknot we agreed to play out the rest of the game on Gameknot.  I won with white and conceded a Low Draw with the black pieces.  Watch this space my friends ......
If you read this annotation, please give it a mark.  <n><n>This is one of those tournament games where I felt that I had to win as Black.  I'd won the equivalent game as White in a Sicilian with 3.Bb5 and was looking for a double but thought that grisha might play the same line back against me.  Alekhine time.
I must confess that I didn't see White's 11th, and 0-0-0 would be my choice second time around.
I'll give this an ! because it came out of the blue and wins a pawn for nothing.  So much for my plan of 0-0-0.
I don't get this move.  White continues to exchange pieces but the white-squared bishop can only come into its own on the h1-a8 diagonal if Black plays exd4 with a reversed Modern Benoni, a pawn down.
It's taken 22 moves, but I've tripled on the f-file, the Ne4 has gone and White is lost.  Any bishop move allows Rxf2+ winning, but the alternative ...
So far I seem to used a good opening.
I thought this looked good for me!
so I trade queens.
Sicilian. I love this defense!
? allows the white N to advance.  Perhaps this is harmless, but I see it as an oversight. The position is nearly symmetrical, but with important differences.
I didn't see this one coming, but replies were easy to find.
I took note of my Rh8, in the line of white's DSB, and in the manner of blitz, blithely ignored the threat...  Here is where I began my attempt to channel my hero, Raoul.  His signature sac is of a minor piece on, in this case, g4, supported by a pawn, with a rook menacing the soon-to-open h file.  I saw that I could achieve this setup and simultaneously support the attacked pawn on e5, and jumped at the opportunity without calculation.
There it is!  When white played this, I thought for a while, until I saw a faster attack than doubling the rooks.  Do you see it coming?
hoping to trade of for the knight
this guards a2
Now we enter a textbook Sicilian Najdorf.  See you in 2 moves.
Now my opponent has returned to the main line, but it's a little late.  I pin his pawn to his queen with the intention of playing b6 and either Nxe4 or Bxe4.
I have hunted and hunted for the trap, but I can't find it.  In any case, I don't really have much choice.  Either I play fxe6, or run scared with my queen while the knight rips up my king-side defenses.
As with my previous move, I really don't have much choice.  I still don't see the trap.  The next move has to be either Qh6 or Qg4, neither of which is really all that threatening.  He has the option of exchanging bishops and trading his remaining bishop for my knight, but I don't see how that would help.<n><n>Right now I'm looking at Nxf2, forking the rooks, but we'll see if I figure out what my opponent is up to.
As expected.  Now, the question is why did I expect this move, and why on earth did white make it?  It's a horrible move!  Must be something in the water.  I really did not see it until several minutes of staring at the board.  That's twice now in a couple of weeks that I've won a major piece by exploiting an illusionary pin.<n>The other alternative, Qg4, would have left me scrambling to avoid a mate (which I think I would have, with advantage).  Lucky me.
White has ample compensation for the pawns.
18...Qc5?? 19. Qh6 1-0 Morozevich - Van Wely, Corus Wijk aan Zee, 26.1.2002. No easy life is expecting Black, anyway...
20...Kf8; 21. Rf3, Nf6; 22. Qh8 , Ke7; 23. Qxd8 , Kxd8; 24. Rxf4 was Black's best option... unsufficient to equalize, however.
Shredder:<n>66. ... Kf4 win in 17 BEST<n>66. ... Be4 win in 20
The Caro-Kann, a relatively new defense at the time.
this is not very interesting move ...
this exchange was not very interesting also for black, it shows that they have no more plans<n>so a good oportunity to regain the initiative
it seems to be a good move for blacks ...<n>but did they saw Qc4 ! treatening mate in f7 ?
It was nive, but if somebody know about the opening, thanks in advance !
This line is too slow...
it has been a very long time since I have had to face the panov attack. I predict that I will have no trouble in this game as I am very skilled in handling the panov
this is a slight edge to black because he has a lead in development
black is a bit awkward but I have calculated well and can see that I will be completely fine when when the dust settles.
in exchange for the rook I gain superior piece play and attacking chances
Black gives up his second rook but the trade is good for black because the bishop pair will rule the board
Black is has taken an advantage, with alot less pieces on the board.
Here White resigned
An alternative is QxPb2+.  This forces a queen trade, but ultimately does not work out as well for black.  The e4 pawn is the much tastier morsel.
This is a really bad trade.  Queen and rook for a queen?  Here Re7 would have been a lot better.  Even QxPb2+ (forcing a queen trade) gets black a queen and pawn for a queen.
Nah, don't bother.  Pa3 instead.  BxNb4, Pa2, white cannot prevent promotion of the queen.
Black does not need another queen.  Here Kf7 would probably help end the game quicker.  Time to run the white king up against the edge of the board and gut him.
great move this is. the b5 pawn is pinned and i simply put more attack on it.
This is a game at the Dutch youth championship. I'm black and play against an opponent with a rating of 2080. My rating then was 1520 (Although it should be about 1800 I think). After the opening I'm standing worse, and start to play for a draw, at which I succeed in the end.
I believe the main line runs 7. ... h6, but I didn't know that, and this move seemed good.
I hadn't seen this coming, but I don't think it's that good. I lose a pawn, but I can also exchange a piece after which a draw get closer.
And a draw was agreed. Please give comments and this game, and I hope you enjoyed it.
This is the Ruy , known for it's ability to maintain longterm pressure on the black position.
Gaining time while attacking the rook.
White runs out of time. This is a very interesting game from the marshall and shows how a gambit ties down  the defenders resources and makes it hard to find active plans.
Black has exploited his chances in the best way possible. He has precise targets for his attack and complete justification to look to the future with optimism. White has no counter play, and the pawn weaknesses at a3,c3 and h5 make their defence extremely unpleasant.
It's weird all this B manouvering, but I have another B...
A clean piece is mine, but this move has its purpose.
I'm sorry for my Qside pieces, but this is the forcing move
In a patzer's game like this, I can still fall for tricks. Let's see some of them.
This was to avoid any escape for the b pawn.
Hoping in a stalemate.
"Chess for cavemen" as Julian Hodgson would say. Quite discredited in opening theory (unfairly I feel). Wischess20 plays the book refutation (..Nge7, ..d5)
This is I think the best move, and is a relative novelty with the planned sacrifice. The fxg lines are weak against the uncastled black king, as they give black some breathing space opening the h file for his rook. Black needs to play very accurately for the next few moves to wriggle out of white's mating threats. The subtlety of Bb3 is to permit black to win the bishop on white's terms.. ie. not dc (opening the d file for an annoying check by the black queen on d4) but ..c4, ..cb, and after ab white can whip his rook into the attack via a4.
I push my b2 pawn to b4 and black takes with pawn at c5.
I found this game cool game by Bobby Fischer vs. Bolbochan, but I found an interesting move, which was not actually played, but I think it would've been a better move, unless I'm missing something. What do you guys think? Replay the game and stop by move 25, to read my suggestion. Thanks and enjoy! Additional comentaries are from other sources, except on move 25.
Book so far.
...this move.
...this Pawn finishes the game with a flourish.
The opening for fast games and the one to use if you trust your attacking instincts. I've mated a lot of people with sharp opening play in as little as 15 moves. It has its risks, but it's also loads of fun, as long as you know to expect some losses once in a while.
The open variation, with a lot of tactics and plenty of attacking opportunities for White and also good counter-attacking chances for Black in the endgame
O'Kelly Sicilian, not very popular, but that doesn't mean it's not good, it packs quite a punch if you don't know how to handle it.
Opening the position and seizing the center
I have no idea if this is objectively any good, but it seems to offer a good game
Black has a Knight of his own he can lodge in the center, but his plan is focused on the queen side. I always go for the King when I can help it.
This needed a few concrete lines to be calculated or else it would have just dropped a piece. The main danger for White is the back rank weakness.
I'm not so sure this is a good move, it keeps the initiative for Black, but at a very high cost, activating the white squared Bishop with drastic effects on the security of the Black King.
Every White piece is aimed at the Black King. I don't see a miracle move for Black in this position.
This is begging for it.
The fortress has fallen.
15. Rd1 - I defend the pawn on d3 for now but it is gonna be a target.  I am now rueing not offering it up for David's c pawn to exchange it on d4.
27. Rxd4 - I now get my pawn back but on the next turn, David warns me that Henry is not long for this world.  This only means one thing.  I am gonna cop, wait for it ........
I am white in this fast time control game. It shows how having more mobility for development is more important than a stupid pawn.
One thing about me is that I don't like to waste moves taking pawns. I develop another piece while Black has yet to develop.<n>One might think Qxd4 is a good move since it attacks Black's rook while centralizing the queen, but it's a risky move so if you want to play it, do it at your own risk.
I am giving up a pawn for more central space and mobility for development, plus another developing move. This will transpose into a variation of the Morra Gambit (e4 c5 d4 cxd4 c3 dxc3 Nxc3) but where Black has played g6, and playing g6 isn't good in the Morra Gambit, as you'll see.
I have three very strongly placed pieces in the centre, plus a pawn and queen giving additional support. While all Black has is one piece developed and a cramped position. Playing this opening as White is risky because Black may recover and hold onto his extra pawn, but I love to take risks in chess since it makes it more fun.
All my moves have been for development, so as a result of my pawn sacrifice, I can complete my development easily and all my pieces will have active squares, while Black is cramped and has to struggle to develop.
Black's main weakness in the Morra Gambit is having a weak d-pawn. If I can win Black's pawn, then material will be even and I'll retain a superior position.
Black is barely starting to develop, while my already developed active pieces are reaching maximum attacking potential, and Black's position is cramped.
Remember this is a fast time control game, so Black doesn't have time to think of a way to improve his cramped position. He's just making fast moves that attack me.
I can freely maneuver my pieces to an attacking position, while all Black can do is maneuver his cramped pieces on his back ranks.
Look how much territory and control my pieces have. Now Black has to struggle to defend f7. It doesn't really feel like I'm down a pawn.
I have a tactical threat of Nxg6 fxg6 Qxg6  winning the rook. Black tries to make a counter threat on the next move but it turns out to be a blunder. Blunders are common when you're in a cramped position and can't do anything. Black could've tried Rg7, which would leave me with a more complicated win that I would have to work harder for.
He can flee no further. My active pieces have completed their tactical attack.
I am White in this game against some Russian dude I played in Reno.
This is the move that lets me gain the least amount of tempi.
Black's only hope of stopping my tempo gains is to trade queens.
Declining the queen trade offer takes away my initiative. Whenever you have the initiative, especially when you're down material, every move you make should be a tactical threat, or moves that stop your opponent's counterplay.
Black cannot stop my control of the e-file with Re4, because it isolates his pawn, and isolated pawns can be very weak in endgames, especially pure pawn endgames.
The most important thing in endgames is to have active pieces. Black's king is inactively placed in the corner while my king and rook are actively directed toward Black's weak kingside pawns.
Kg6 is dubious because Ke5  takes his king away from his pawn and results in the same position as the actual game, but where Black hasn't played a5.
Black offered me a draw again, but this time my position is winning because of Black's weak king and my actively placed pieces.
Black resigned. His two pawns can't promote faster than mine, and my king is defending all the squares I need for my pawn to promote.<n>The game would've continued g3 f7  Kd7 f8=Q and my queen would create numerous tactical threats to win the rest of Black's pawns.
Here I am playing as black, which I am still not very good at. This is probably the ugliest game I have played to date. Though, my awkward play on this game may have caused a bit of confusion for my opponent. At the time of this game his score was not 1555 due to his timeouts, but 1555 is his score at this time. Please feel free to comment. I know if I played him again he would probably do 1000 things different. I should have lost this one.
Although I have no pieces developed I feel my rapid queen side pawn development stops his knight from advancing, and temporarily makes it difficult to attack.
This is a pretty awkward situation. Now I am regretting to have developed my pieces. My King is out in the open and I don't feel I have enough pieces to adequately provide the pressure needed to stay on the attack.
This game just keeps getting uglier by the minute. Point wise we are even, but my pawns are all singles, which means pretty much dead if he plays his pieces right.
He resigned at this point. I do not see anyway that he can stop me from advancing at least one pawn across. No dought, this was an ugly game, but I guess I had luck on my side.
first time i see that kind of defense on that kind of black attack; would be curious to have someone opinion on the quality of it.
i think this move also helped me...
black has recuperate the disadvantage and is now on a winning position
and resigned...
...so I attack its twin with the pawn in front of my inactive rook...
Sicilian, Alapin's Variation (2.c3)  I play Sicilian alot, but I rarely see this opening.  To me, this seems like a too passive approach for myself... so I did not look forward to this game
At this point he resigned due to the obvious 26... Bg4 which would have secured me at a 7 piece advantage with a weak, but sufficient, pawn structure and support.  I would like to thank Alin for putting on a great game and having the better of me for most of the game.
.I played C20 Portuguese opening, as a surprise weapon, it allows black to easily equalize the game, but he has to know how to do it, also allows some dangerous tactics to the unaware... black mishandled it, and overextended his queen side pawns, postpone the castle and underdeveloped his pieces... all this means certain loss, in a short game.
C20 Portuguese opening
resembles a Ruy Lopez with an overextended pawn chain by black, d5 is the week square for black now, my main ideas are the pawn break a2-a4 and an outpost in d5
? black might try to exchange the light squared bishops with Be6
and now black only option is to capture with the queen exchanging rook and two pawns for two minor pieces: 10...Qxf7 11.Nxf7 gxh5 12.Nxh8 Ne7 and the knight is trapped but the h pawn soon drops
The lack of developed pieces and the absence of castle allowed some tactics against f7, the resulting game would lead to in an material imbalance of tow minor pieces and two pawns for a rook, with the queens of the board and a majority of white pawns in the king's wing...
The battle here is for central squares, this move doesn't address the issue.  I'd consider directing force against the e5 square with Bd5, C5 later to pressure whites control of this square, and Nc6 with Re8 all keeping the center under lock.  I'm a Tarrasch player, I don't mind an Iso from time to time.
Queen takes Pawn Check!!
I don't understand this move... Really, why??
Been a long time since I've played actively in chess because of exams and real life but I'm getting myself back into the game slowly. It will take awhile for me to reclaim the 1600+ rating I lost through timeouts, especially isnce it will take a fair few games for me to really get back into the game! With this game...well, nothing special, basically I get crushed! :P
Hi everyone!<n><n>If you have been following my annotation about Pawn Fork Part 1, you will notice that I made a Bad Draw Offer because of planless play in a won position.  However, I felt so much better after this game because my opponent was the same opponent that I gave that draw to.  I ended up with a two pawn advantage in the late stages of the middlegame but kept my eyes firmly averted from the Offer Draw button and somehow worked out how to gain a much needed victory to get my Class A status back.  My opponent kicks off with c4 which is the English Opening and you can follow the action with the following link to Gameknot Analysis.<n><n>http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=15650010&fb=1&rnd=0.3572556454226388
23. Qxd4 - every trade of pieces from now on helps black, especially with all 3 major pieces plus Gail's remaining bishop swarming around Henry.
30. ..... Qxa3 - I decided to rid myself of one set of rooks before swiping off the a3 pawn.  I now have two connected passed pawns on the queenside and they are my two extra pawns.  They should be enough to win but I must now convert this win.  Concentrate, Joanne, concentrate.
40. ..... Ra8! - not a2? as the WK can blockade it with Kb2 and Ka1.  This ensures that at the very least, white must give up her rook for Glenda.  This is exactly what happens.  It is amazing, that at the sight of a big black queen, how many opponents wave that white flag.  Gail duly waved it as soon as Glenda appeared.  Gail would have been a whole rook and pawn to the bad and my rook would have no trouble in cleaning up the white pawns and then checkmating the WK.  I hope this will help if you do get stuck in a won position but you are wondering just how to convert it.  I hope you have a good read.  Bye for now - Joanne
This game is famous for the concluding combo and the report that Curt von Bardeleben didn't bother to resign but simply got up and walked away without a word..Sour grapes or what! He resigned later on that day! Steinitz was definitely past his best in 1895, but as he himself said, "I may be an old lion, but I can still bite someone's hand off if he puts it in my mouth."
Black keeps it symetrical and also stakes a claim for the centre.
This moves signals the beginning of the Italian game. The development of white's bishop to c4 prepares castling, eyes up the f7 pawn and hinders an early d5 by black. This is obviuosly not as popular as its durable neighbour the Ruy Lopez. This is because in most accounts black has a pretty simple route to equality in all directions. However this obviously wasn't realized in the 19th century as it was seen quite often at master level.
This is the only move which leads to equallity for black out of the opening. The other lesser alternative is 6.Bb6 which gives White a slight edge.
?! This was the whole point of this opening, white sacrifices material in order to castle rapidly.From a modern perspective , however this line now looks increasingly dubious, and if black is well prepared, he should have no problems.emerging from the opening with a sizeable advantage.<n>7. Bd2 is a quieter safer option for white.
Of course the Rook cannot be captured by the Queen (22...Qxe7 23.Rxc8 ) and 22...Kxe7 leads to 23.Re1  Kd6 24.Qb4  Kc7 25.Ne6  Kb8 26.Qf4 . But after Black's next move, every White piece is en prise, and mate is threatened on c1...
This is an extraordinary situation. Black can't capture the white rook, but white cant capture the black queen!!!!!!!!!!!If 22...Qxe7 23. Rxc8  ( or 22...Kxe7 23. Re1 Kd8 24. Ne6 ) wins for white, but Rxd7( or Qxd7) Rxc1 checkmate wins fro black. Thats what I call a bloody complicated position!Now a comical series of moves takes place, where Steinitz's impudent rook essentially thumbs its nose at Von Bardeleben's King.
CHECKMATE! Von Bardeleben walked away from the board without playing out playing the final sequence which is bad manners but understandable. I know if I'd been in his shoes I would have been extremely frustrated by my inability to to move anything other than his king for so long! I hope you liked this game. I'm happy for positive and negative feedback aslong as its constructive criticism! and feel freee to leave comments.<n>Thanks<n>Tom
Queen's Gambit, Accepted. I don't think I've played this opening in at least two decades...
Finally I get back my gambit pawn, with a stronger center and greater development, although I'm not fond of the double pawns on the f-file or the isolated h pawn.
I was hoping for 9. ... Bxc3  so I could play 10. Pxc3 and put a pawn on defense of my d4 pawn, and also creating a threat at b7.
To liquidate pieces, of course. And to open a file, if black will let me.
White gets a little over-eager.  15. Nxe5 and Black must trade Queens (leaving White in control on the Queen's file, no less) or retreat and White has his tempo back with the gain of a piece for a pawn.  The text leads to chaos.
White, in the final reckoning, traded a minor piece for two pawns.  He has moderately better development, but his Queen looks vulnerable and his pawn structure is non-existent.  His only chance is to push the Queen-side (where he has a pawn majority by some miracle) hard and fast, but the Knight is in the way.
White resigns.<n><n>A messy game all around.  While I made significant mistakes (not least entering the final combination instead of retreating) it was a fairly even game.
Hi everyone!<n><n>This is my second game in my match, Jo against The Titans.  It is against my Master buddy Janet.  Things seemed ok until the middlegame when Fou Leblanc got caught in a Noah's Ark type of trap but this time it was on the kingside.  I played on and tried to counter-attack but unfortunately her extra piece proved way way stronger than my pawn and her rook and bishop were enough to ensure that I had to choose between losing ruinous amounts of material or allowing sudden death.  I allowed the latter.  How did this happen?  Well, here is the game: http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=18563516&fb=1&rnd=0.8143384377108815
8. 0-0 - at least Henry has not been caught in the centre this time!
This is a game played in a team match (I annotated both games). I had blundered away the exchange, and was contemplating resigning when a tactical oversight by my opponent gave me a chance to turn the tables over. <n>Both sides make many mistakes, but overall this was a fun game.
The d5 knight is an impressive piece, which is why I exchange it.
:(      <n>What a miserable way to get forked!<n> On the second thought, Bxf2  22. Kxf2 Rxc2  23. Kg1 Re7 24. Ne5 Ne6 objectively was an improvement for me, compared to previous turn. How come I never saw that variation?
?<n>After this move, black gets some hopes of activity against white king (and decides not to resign for a few more moves!). In view of what happened in the game, Rf1 was better.
A Mini-tournament game, I'm playing white and open with the Open Game.
More sacrificing from black, but this time it's very dangerous. If white handles the next couple of moves badly, black will obtain a winning advantage.
A shield against 22. Rg6+ and an attack on black's queen.
this attempt to rapidly mobilize all the queenside pieces backfires.  Best was that old move 6 ... Nf6.
Think this exchange was a little bit favorable for me.
Black is swapping quenns.
Takes with the Rook of course! Keeping up the pressure along the c-file is necessary!
Now have I get the advantage with two connected, passed pawns!
Whites three connected, passed pawns is far stronger! As I see it two connected, passed pawns can pretty easily be blocked, if the King is in the neighbourhood and no other threats is <n>possible, but three connected, passed pawns is probably one too much for the opponent to grasp!
Better is Qd1 which boosts the defence of the Non f3 without risking disrupting the pawn shield in front of the K.  Also it moves the Q away from the centre of the board where it is open to attack by minor pieces
My typical white opening move
perhaps a risky move here, but I don't like when my opponent gets a pawn on 4d. I see we both have three pieces covering that spot but I am always willing to exchange pieces when tied and I am playing someone much better than me.
The beginning of the Tumbleweed opening.
The Tumbleweed, in all its glory. White has open lines on the K-side to use for attack, and Black's Queen is exposed, but Black has a material advantage in return.
Now White has five powerful attacking pieces. Black's defense must be exact.
Caro-Kann Defense
Apologies to my opponent, here I cannot recall if he played Nf6 or Qxb2. My reply would still be Bxc6+ tho.
Trying to trick him into playing Qd7. My move is not the best and I would have never played it against a higher rated player but here gave it a try.
Feeling good so far, with ten moves gone my development, which is usually lousy, seems far better.
Just as a warning, this game is 89 moves long; make sure you have something to eat!
The pirc defense -- a defense I don't like playing against very much.
All standard so far -- this is the Austrian attack of the pirc defense, where white has a big classical center, and black will counterattack against it from the flank.
Now black has a decision to make; give up the bishop pair (and this is a pretty good bishop for black), or retreat it.  Note that, due to black's queen maneuvering, he's just the tiniest bit behind in development.
This exchange allows black to catch up in development, but costs him the bishop pair.
Aggressively pushing towards black's kingside.  Is this warranted?  I think so -- white has a good presence on the kingside and in the center, and black's pieces are pretty passively posted.
Unexpected!  I had thought I'd see axb6, and black has to figure out what to do about his atrocious pawn structure.  But this allows white to exchange even MORE of black's pieces.
Forcing black to recapture; if instead black plays Nxd3, white has gxh7 , winning a pawn, creating a passed pawn on the h-file, with good winning chances.
The main alternative to this was Nxd3, but the rook   pawn endgame favors white heavily.  It's hard to argue with this move; the only downside is...
A good move, forcing the white king away from the defense of the g-pawn.  Remember your endgame principles: When you're down on material, exchange pawns, not pieces!
And white knows his best chance of winning is with passed pawns on the queenside!
With two passed pawns, I am very optimistic now.  I feel that I've maximized my slight advantage and now have good hopes of winning; can black draw?
In practice, however, this endgame is very difficult for both sides.  Even in games on chessgames.com, the strong side wins 35% of the time; Karpov defeated Van Wely with it as recently as 2003!<n><n>I have 50 moves to either exchange his rook for my bishop, win his rook outright, or mate his king -- otherwise it's a draw.
This time he remembered.  I figure I have to do something about this differently, since Ra7  will get me nowhere.  So I calculated a while, and came up with...
??  After all his great play, this blunder costs black the game in dreadful fashion.  <n><n>The last hope was Kd8!, leading to the famous "philidor position" in the R B vs. R, which is a win for the strong side, but it takes something like 13 or 15 moves to do it in -- enough for black to hold on here!
Running doesn't help for anything but a single move.
And black resigns, for it's a mate in 1 after 89. Rf8  Ka7 90. Ra8#.  This endgame almost never comes up, but it was fun to learn about it and awfully exciting to win from the strong side!<n><n>To those of you who stuck with it, thanks for your fortitude, and I hope you enjoyed it!  -Ethan
Black has made a lot of pawn moves and only developed one piece. His development should be significantly worse than mine. But this move restricts the movements of my minor pieces and I'm starting to feel a bit cramped...
Black's roook now controls most of the a file.
Black wins a pawn.
Black takes back. A mistake I think...
Creating tactical complexity... I think his best move here is Rxa2. I haven't gone into any deep analysis here - but I've saved it as something to do on a rainy day!
Black recaptures.
Black retreats.
Seems too late for this now - my pawn is gone!
I move to an open file - but it doesn't help much. Black controls most of the board with his bishops.
I defend it.
...but black's pawn is unstoppable.
Now I'm hoping to capture black's last two pawns to draw. Is this even possible? Should I have just resigned here?
And it's all over. Lesson learned!<n><n>Thanks for looking at this game! Hope you enjoyed it. Please leave comments and give it your star rating.
black castles to queen's side....a tad unusual
ok lets try & halt this nonsense...the black gee gee is going nowhere fast, and his queen is clumsily sat in line of his king <n><n>- hands up if you've been punished for doing that in the past :o/
oops !!! :o)<n><n>i'll have some of neddy i think ....muuuhhhhaaawwwoooaaaarrr
The decisive move, black exchanges & takes white bishop with pawn, in the mean time whites rook & queen have connected <n><n>Eureka ka ka ka ka
with the material advantage in muttit's court at last...black is in deep doo doo
Normal development so far... The game is still looking pretty even
Oops, my opponent traps his LSB
Yes! I get a bishop for my troubles. Notice I also have an intimidating pawn centre. Immediately I played d5, I saw Bxh7+ could be dangerous for black if not handled carefully
But my opponent just keeps knocking on the door looking for an opening somehow. Surely I can't allow the f-file to open so I play...
Probably not a good move but who cares! I get to win a pawn and the exchange which automatically simplifies to a won end game for me
This was played with the intention of fully opening the board for my rooks to operate on. If he dosent trade, I would have a passed pawn
And the game comes to an end, hope you enjoyed.
When playing the master stick to what you know especially if its a sound mainstream opening.
8.Qe2 was an option which the gameknot computer after game analyses called for.(Though it gives another perspective on the whole I mistrust the gameknot computers judgement).I rejected the move at the time as I considered the move too drawish.
The Steinitz Defense and white's main line reply.
Black's 4th move 4. ... exd4 is not in my Ruy Lopez book - heck, the Steinitz Defense only gets about 1 page out of the whole book.
16. ... dxe5 seems to open up a whole bunch of trouble for black. White can recapture with check, or with the knight to put pressure on c6 and f7 while attacking black's queen. Also, the possibility of Bxh6 while discovering the rook attack on black's queen is dangerous for black, too. Meanwhile, black's knight and pawn are both under attack.
I have prevented the promotion, but I'm still down by two pawns. Black has his passed pawn on b7 that I must prevent from promoting, and he has a 3 to 2 pawn advantage on the kingside. Worse, my kingside pawns are isolated and cannot support each other. There is only one way this game can end, so rather than drag it out, I choose to resign.
Once again, not a move a grandmaster would likely tell someone who isn't an advanced player to attack with, but it was with a long-term goal in mind. A simple b5 or Bg4 would have been too blatant for the opponent, and the goal of this match was to surprise him into over thinking, and/or making a fatal error
Simple Queen exchange, something a man in his position i didnt think he would go for.
Thats when I saw this, and was pleased to do so. It is probable this was the only way out of actually going down a piece..
Black should have played gxh6.
Hello everybody! This is a game that i won before few days and i quite liked it! Well i started with e4.
He played e5. He would have played the Sicilian also!
My reaction is Caro-Kann. I don't really know how to play it, or I can play it well, but I don't use this very often.
So, I blocked with the knight. Later on, it will turn out that it was a good choice.
He has no choice. bxc3
?! The Latvian Gambit. I have a whole bunch of annotated games in this opening, take a look at them for the main lines. It is generally pretty unsound, but can be strong in blitz if White is not prepared!
? Put simply, this move accomplishes nothing. It doesn't make way for development; it doesn't prevent any threats, and it doesn't threaten anything. Much better was 4.d4.
Black releases the tension in the center in preparation for castling; he must close off the White Bishop's scope. This also foreshadows the massive kingside attack that is Black's signature in this opening.
The Black Queen's time has come, and what an entrance she makes.
0-1. White eagerly snatches up the e5 pawn, only to realize that he's terribly lost anyway; his Rook and Knight are both about to fall to Black's pawn (probably after 22...Be3+) and he has no counterplay opportunities whatsoever, so he throws in the towel. Thanks to mesledarya for a fun game! Comments are much appreciated; thanks for reading!
2.d4 - Michael has played the Pirc Defense and allowed me to get control in the centre.
6. Bd3 - I develop my pieces quickly.
8. B for N trade.
10. 0-0-0 - I make a somewhat brave decision to castle on the opposite side of my opponent.  This can involve pawn storms on both sides of the board and a race to checkmate.
38. c3 - I block a check and push my passer up one square.  However, Qd2 threatening Qc1# should Glenda stray off the b1-g8 diagonal prompted me to trade queens.  I did briefly consider Qf7+ but I thought it wouldn't lead to anywhere, so I closed down the game with the queen trade and a subsequent draw offer.  Gameknot analysis showed that Qf7+ won for white.  So, a missed opportunity for yours truly.
trick him, i lost a pawn if Kxf3
the rest of the game are history....
This variation frees Black's game and is therefore usually not adopted. However, with Spielmann sitting at the board...
Removing the KB, usually a vital piece for White in a French Defense attack.
Centralizing his Q with the recapture.
Spielmann begins concentrating his forces on the K-side.
Black has no choice.
This was definitely a game of two halves as they say. It all started reasonably well then after around 20 moves everything fell apart. I think I learnt a lot from this game but would still be interested to see comments and thoughts.<n><n>Analysis is also available at http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=18461988&rnd=0.7610093399416655
English, 1...Nf6 (Anglo-Indian defense) (A15), I'm not sure why but this isn't a response I see often to my favoured c4 opening
This is quite a common choice but I think I prefer e5 here for black
While its still well within the Gameknot opening database I don't really understand this move. The computer calls it an innacuracy
I thought long and hard about this and decided to take with the queen so as not disrupt my pawn structure too much, in particular I didn't want to open the c rank for black. As it turns out this was the start of my demise.<n><n>Analysis calls this an inaccuracy
This didn't seem unreasonable at the time, the bishop is pretty safe there and keeps the black king hemmed in, I just need to work out how to get at it however analysis calls this a mistake preferring g3
Usually White is not willing to trade a flank pawn for a center pawn and to help Black develop.
A surprising oversight.  White resigned on the spot.  I'm sure this was not typical play for this 1601-rated player.
strange game...
getting back the pawn... but I admit it is mostly due to black mistake on move 20.
here, if he takes, I reunite 2 pawns...
central pawn, king close... it is a classical final.
resigns... well, although I could have finished sooner, there was no doubt about the end for a long time. Strange game, because of the two  R+2p = B+N :-)
maddie and myself jst enjoy a good game, and after a overpowering defeat by maddie, i had my knife in for him:) This game, i rate one of my best games to date, and im sure he wouldnt mind if i share it.
and there it is! a nice game against a worthy opponent!  Believe me...he thrashed me the previous game:) so this was a game that would not easily be repeated:) thx maddie:))))
? a poor choice
White resigned
So really it is a english opening, with white getting a powerful grip in the center, on the light squares. The advantage of this system is that white will always have a lot of space, and has potential on the kingside with the e4 pawn. In most variations, white is planning on the kingside area. In english opening variations without e4, white is seen playing Rb1,b4,b5, and attacking the queenside.
(?!!)A very interesting tactical idea. Now black has 3 main candidate moves. 14...dxe5 15.Bxc5 is easy. 14...Nxe5 15.gxf4 with a double attack on the rook and the knight. 14...fxe3 gives white a choice. A)15.Bxc6 and now black has a choice. A1)15...exd2 16.exf6 Bxf6 17.Bxa8 Bxh3(or 17...Bxb2 first) 18.Bg2 white has some advantage. A2)14...dxe5 15.Bxa8 exd2 gives black the advantage. He is getting many pawns for the exchange, as well as active pieces. By the way, there were more variations that needed to be calculated. I am just listing a few. Therefore, white needs to play B)15.exf6 Bxf6 16.Bxc6 Bxh3! 17.Bxa8 Qxa8 18.Ne4 Bxb2 with a advantage to black, but nothing winning. Just listing these few variations makes my head start really hurting:). And these were just the main lines that we needed to calculate! To calculate the variations properly, you really needed to slow down, during each half move, and ascertain ALL the new candidate moves for each side, keep track of the material properly, and avoid fainting at the same time, and much more! Certainly, black could have gotten an advantage with taking 14...fxe3. However, the resulting position is still complex. Maybe black missed the variation. That would be possible, considering the difficulty of the calculation here. Absolutely crazy position! However, this is just the beginning! Black now chooses to take up the complexity up another level(!) and plays a dubious, extremely complicated move.
(!)16...Rb8 leads to the same result. When you look at this move here, it seems so very simple to find this move for black. However, to tell the truth, it is very very difficult. There was no way for white to know that this was the key line when there were many other side variations that needed to be calculated. Some of them had multiple branching points at every half move, leading to dozens of variations. It is calculation at the highest level! By the way, most calculations an master makes in his games will never look anything close to this. There are usually few branching points in the simpler variations, so we can calcualte them easily. Now, the critical moment has passed, and black has a winning advantage. However, Nevednichy, the GM, is confused and blunders the advantage right back!
The smoke has more or less cleared, and black has a crushing attack and 3 pawns for the piece. Now, 19.Re1 Qc8 wins for black.
Now white is back in the game, and has a clear plan. He has more force on the kingside, so it is time to start an offensive there.
This moves "breaks" my attack on the kingside. I am experimenting now how to face it, and by this moment, Qb3 it is almost the only way to consistently develop the game for white.
Ups... an annoying move for black. I have a good training game with this line...
Terrible mistake, I'm sorry for him. Until here, my position was good enough to make Bc7 playable in the opening. From now on, it is only a matter of time.
I get rid of his second Bishop, leaving me at an advantage if a two-minor-piece end game arises.
Creating the "cramping Pawn chain", although with two minor pieces gone from each side there's less to cramp, and setting up a possible K-side attack.
With the consideration that I don't want my B trapped behind my Pawn chain. Now it can participate in the coming attack.
This is a mistake, as it opens the KR file and lets my Rook have an avenue of attack.
Black has exchanged queens, but is far behind in development and needs to play carefully.
This check gives the black king some room but does not solve Black's problems.
Black tries to exchange pieces to gain some freedom.
And the game is won.
Hi everyone!<n><n>I have joined the Annotations Project Part 3 Mini-tournament and I am trying to avoid stepping on the mines playing the black pieces.  Yup, black is Q for 2 pieces up but the minor pieces, e.g. the knights and bishops are everywhere so it is a minefield for the BK and BQ.  Now, my buddy Thom Pham (tofuman) who is a Dentist has bravely joined this tournament.  Although he currently has a Class D rating, he has an optimum rating of 1407 so underestimate him at your peril lest he drill a terrific cavity in your rating and give you a massive toothache!  I thought I would annotate this game because he is due to be my opponent and I do not wish to incur my second loss against him so I need to learn something from it to be prepared.   Freddy, the Master Mater has used the Caro-Kann Defence to build up to the traditional Queen Sac.  The Caro-Kann is 1. ..... c6 in response to 1. e4, preparing a move like d5.  I will comment further on the action after white's 9th move.   You can follow the game move by move by referring to the Gameknot Analysis version of this game as follows:- http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=14257584&rnd=0.7276568196264748
22. ...... Qxc5 - one set of minor pieces has been exchanged but white still has sufficent material to mate and look at how the Royal black couple are standing - they are sitting ducks for a pawn fork!
Hi all! This is the second game in this team match (the first can be found here: http://gameknot.com/annotation.pl/kings-gambit-i-accept?gm=45099 ). I open with the English, and after a lot of quiet posturing early on, some convoluted action starts happening in the center, eventually culminating in a frenzy of activity ranging all across the board. I come out of it ahead in material, but my opponent has surprising resources left to him and my pieces are scattered all over.
Both players are continuing their development logically. Black's position is a little more reserved than White's, but by no means is it significantly inferior. With this move, White places a piece of his own in the center of the board, and challenges Black to do something about it.
Black wants to open a diagonal for his DSB, and he doesn't actually have any way to defend d6 anyway, so this move prevents White from playing Rxd6 with tempo against the BQ.
Instead, tempo is gained harassing the Rook. This move marks the beginning of the bloodiest phase of the game--pieces of both colors, waiting on the flanks, fly to the center to kill and be killed.
This is a very strong square for a Knight; however it isn't meant to last. This move forces Black to trade off his Bishop, but more importantly for White, it allows a free Rook lift to the fifth rank.
The d-file is becoming a dangerous place to be. Black also has the problem of dealing with the threats to his Ne5 and pawn at c5. This answers both, for the moment.
? Black denies his Ne5 two crucial defenders, thinking it safe while the WR is responsible for the defense of White's Nd6, but he overlooks this intermezzo:
! This seemingly-simple move is the first in a series of tricks that Black has up his sleeve. The d-file is now closed off, so nothing can get across to attack the Black King, and nothing can get home to defend the White King.
The attack on the pawn is failed, so let's try to mix the cards
I don't know if standing at the center has been a right choice, The threat is weak, and the tower now has less mobility.
Another change of side
Here's the first of some moves I didn't catch. But for me it was "loss time" of my enemy, it was good.
I understand that move, but I think is a lot desperate. Position is not so strong, I'd rather protect the pawn in e7 with the king, instead, and left the queen in position.
Another change of side, the last.
Deasperate move #2. Maybe a threat to the queen with tower in h7 would slow down the attack for a while
and so i go with what i find to be my strongest black start against d4 openers, e6.  this Game will demonstrate the importance of time in chess on a few occasions. and the importance of always looking at all moves possible.
and so i play this. i thought it also greatly restrains his knights movement
it immediately invites be3 and i dont really have an attack with my queen from this square man this is a big concern.
alot of pressure gone
and so i thought this was the appropriate reply.
my opponent blunders here i believe probably not anticipating my LSB move i think he played too quick. for me i took a second to look if that is what he wanted me to do. i couldnt see any threats come if i did.
and so i accept and now my queen is set up for a deadly attack on his king.  this entire game i kept thinking about a recent comment i read by Ion,  that often when kings castle on opposite sides of the board the one who often attacks first is often the victor.  and the tempo i lost with my qb6 move earlier.
but i thought time was on my side so i procede with my attack which is also a time gain on his top right rook i thought
comes down. im happy he has to come down with 2 pawns this gives me alot of time to recooperate from my time losses
bang. i think his misstep with his knight earlier is also something that bought me a lot of time this game.
opponent resigns.  a free queen and his entire attack has also petered out. and the following rook would shortly drop also and then he would also have a hanging lsb.  i hope you all enjoyed the game.  tied with my highest rated beaten opponent ill take it! 2-2
First off, thank you for watching my game.   this is the third game i will be posting with this gambit. the 2 previous ones had very uncommon replies on move 3. This third game had a more classical development and i wanted to show a possible result and also save this game >< i hope you enjoy.
gambit accepted. i think this is the first one i post where the gambit is accepted,<n><n>its meant to undermine whites middle and take it for yourself. the proper reply is d5 to take middle and recapture the pawn with your WSB
followed by recapturing the pawn,   some whites will double pawn you here immediately if they dont know the lines well and to avoid further black shannanigans, a double pawn situation is acceptable and very playable for the black as this opening makes for a strong king side attack and apart from getting double pawned it might be the only time you play on the queen side of the board.
it is wiser for white to go d4 immediately over d3, this will help me gain time and be prepared for his counter assault.
now if we look at the board on move 10. he has 3 passive pieces top right side. with 1 middle pawn gone. black has center control and is 2 moves from full development and onwards king side attack,<n>the bearing down on the c3 pawn is also supposed to force my oponent into defending it thus giving me more time. my play simple develop bishop to d3, king side castle having the open file from my f5 move,
time to castle development complete.  on move look at blacks deployment over whites, i love this opening gambits vs the unprepared ><
this i think for me was a mistake but i didnt want his queen going right side at any stage during this game. and i was looking for possible ways to attack with my bishop on his queen but those were all plans made on the spot due to my opponents reactions and i should be focusing on the checkmate left side instead<n><n>although as i said earlier queen side play isnt  necessary during this game and can throw you off course.
return to the previous state of game minus a pawn for him
when he replied this i saw the weakness in my pawn i didnt want to focus a battle there so i decided to gain time on the queen this was a mistake
and it didnt!<n><n>time to scramble for a checkmate, it looks so close yet it can be very far id appreciate anyone telling me if i took a detour lol
if he takes the rook with the pawn he cannot stop the checkmate. all whites replies from here on would be appreciated.<n><n>but a "free" rook looks too juicy, this being the rook "sacrifice" (i think :D)<n><n>with this move is also why i thought the fight was going to end on f1 and why his rook to c2 delighted me
and mission complete he has 0 replies possible to prevent Rh3# my oponent resigned.<n><n>i hope you all enjoyed the lines and the tricks i had in this game. All comments appreciated!
GM Mihai Suba is an excellent GM who's played a lot of strange ideas, and frequently pulls out oddly spectacular victories.  In this game he takes black against GM Raicevic.  He begins the game with a speculative gambit and quickly gains a developmental advantage.  His pieces find ingenious ways to march forward, and he wins in nice style.  I recommend flipping the board as Suba plays black and having a board at your side while watching this so that you can analyze variations.
Suba played the English as white to great success.  While most of his finds are for white, this is a great game against his favorite first move.  I'm going to skim over the opening.
This is Suba's idea, the Bellon gambit.  If white takes black will get a good game via 5.cxb5 d5 or 5.Nxb5 I think is met by 5... c6 with ...d5 to follow, but maybe 5... Bb7 is a more natural continuation.  I think white's best response is 5.d3 where white is solid and black's pawns will soon look weak.<n><n>I initially wrote the awful idea of 5.Nxb5 d5?! 6.cxd5 Qxd5?? but that hangs a queen to 7.Nxc7 .  I got a bad rating off this, and I apoligize as it was a silly mistake to make.  I hope others won't rank it as harshly for one silly (but now corrected) blunder in the analysis.
White is forced to make a decision with the knight, but I think this is a bad choice.  I think white should trade, getting rid of one of black's bishops.  Maybe I'm wrong though, as white will have an awful time developing and black has a great a file.
Black has basically concluded development (as opposed to white who has an embarassingly bad bishop on c1) and he now goes for the attack, the two bishop are pointing menacingly towards the king and the rest of the pieces now enter the attack with the following excellent move.
White retains his pair of bishops, but he only has two pieces off the back rank.
And now black has concluded development.
A great reply!  Who needs the rook when black mates with Qd2# or Qf2#.  Black resigned here.  I hope you enjoyed this spectacular, and ever insightful attack.  The gambit led to good compensation and he always found astonishing ideas to keep the attack going.  If you have any comments or criticisms I'd love to hear them.  I think studying the way ideas are formed around use of pieces and tactical plans could greatly help almost anyone's play.  I hope to study and improve from this game more when I have time.  Honestly, I think this is one of the most phenomenal games I've ever seen and I hope I gave it justice here.  If you give a low rating please tell me why.
!?  An interesting move, showing that black will play his king's knight to e7 and then probably to g6.  This indirectly impacts the d4 square and is not as vulnerable as I had thought.  I wanted to attack the queen with Nc3 Nd5 but saw that Nge7 refuted it quickly. After researching this position, I found that on chess.com all the given games of this time give the win to black.  This is a sideline in the Cordel/Classical Ruy Lopez that I wasn't familiar with as I normally see the Berlin or the Steinitz Defenses.  This is a solid defense for black indeed when played correctly.
c3 is normally played first as per the book moves after Bc5 although castling is fine.  This is very similar to the book position, which just shows how natural this opening is to play as neither my opponent nor I  knew this opening by book before the match.
An interesting idea, I was thinking perhaps after Qxf3 and ...Qxf3 gxf3 Bxh3 with some chances though black is better with the queen's on the board if he seeks initiative on the KS with his knights.  This seeks counterplay and black does achieve some semblance of attack but the center proves to thwart the majority of his potential.  I certainly was forced to be wary and hold ground instead of trying to pound in my positional and material edge for quite some time, which drained my clock and gave my opponent the psychological edge for awhile.
Allowing black counterplay but proving all his efforts to be well met with stubborn defense.  This creates an important passed d pawn, and with the pawns connected in the center this is a large trump card.
What follows is calculated to win the exchange...
This is perhaps dangerous for white even with his substantial edge in material because of the exposed nature of his king, though there is a solid defense, which I do not take.  I actually blunder but have saving move that gives the endgame later indicated.   Qg3 was best I believe here with the line: Qg3 Bxf1 Qxg5 hxg5 Rxf1 and white is clearly winning with connected passed center pawns and the exchange up with black having two sets of useless doubled pawns.  This line is preferable for black over Qg3 Qxg3?? gxf3 Bxf1 Rxf1 and the pinned knight is lost again with the same motif that lost its partner earlier, black is even more lost.  After Qg3 the first line is best, and because the black queen is the sole defender of the f4 knight, which holds together black's KS operations, black cannot retreat the queen anywhere but g5 where it is weaker and after Rg1 or Rc1 black is the one in trouble.  I blunder here with Rg1, although white is still winning after the resulting line
! Threatening mate in one with Bg2 double check (mate). The following move is calculated as the only saving move for white which gives away a large portion of his advantage in material but forces a simplification that leaves him with an endgame where he has at very least the draw, and with correct play a win because of his pawns
I went on to win from here and stopped annotating but I got my King to the QS and forced black to sack the knight for the e pawn and then sacked the rook for the h pawn so that I had passed a and c pawns with black's king on the KS corner.  My opponent resigned with 30 seconds left with his bishop on c8 (my pawns on d6 and h5 after I played a6+ because one of the pawns will queen and black is lost.
White is playing the Queen's Pawn Game, and his second move seems to be pushing toward the Stonewall Attack.
White went a bit off script for the Stonewall. That pawn is usually played to c3 instead of c4. Now it looks like he has transposed into a Queen's Gambit (it's not much of a gambit now with his bishop defending the pawn at c4), maybe the Marshall Defense with the black knight at f6, though an early pawn move to e3 is not really main line for white in the Marshall Defense.
Black is up a pawn and he has ruined white's castle. Of note is the fact that we have opposite colored bishops, and eventually, if white is allowed to exchange everything else off the board, black cannot force a win with K B P vs. K B when the bishops are on opposite colors.
Of course, white has Qd8 , but black's queen can save the day with Qf8. However, this takes black's queen out of the center of the board and puts white on the offensive, so I deem it best to prevent the move, which also serves to broaden my queen's scope once she's not tied to preventing checkmate. In retrospect, I think the better move would have been 17. ... Qh5  to force the trading of queens.
OK, let's exchange. If 22. Bxc5 Bxd1, 23. Rxd1 Nxc5 black comes out a piece ahead, and his rook protects against the back-rank checkmate.
Queens are gone, the opposite-bishop ending has been prevented, and black has a winning material advantage. Time to figure out how to win with it.
OK, if I must lose the knight, maybe I can win a couple pawns for it. I anticipate white's next move, but it wins me one pawn after 27. Rd6 Nxa5, 28. Rxe6 Nxb3 and now black has adjacent passed pawns on the a and b files and has extended his material advantage.
White is making it easy on black, approaching an edge of the board. Time for black to limit the white king's range. At this point I announced mate in 5.
Final position. 49. ... Qd7   would have also worked, but 22 of my 23 Conditional Move combinations ended with black making the exact same moves from 46 through 49. The only different combination was if white played 46. Ke8 Qf6, 47. Kd7 Qd8   because it was 2 moves faster (hence prettier). On a side note, I wish the Conditional Moves feature allowed some kind of wildcard for my opponent's move, so that I could have essentially said "whatever white plays, I play this one move in response. A feature like that would have allowed me to enter just a single Contitional Move sequence to arrive at this position (white's king might end on e8) instead of entering 23 combinations. In any case, it was a fun exercise to work out all the combinations.
awfull start for my opponent, I never understand why so many people start with this move, everytime I see this I feel like  playing as white with black pieces.
here it is
which is pawn sacrifice. like this, kinda safe version of kings gambit with black pieces
yeap here it is
white are defending and has all pieces undeveloped. at this moment I decided to act straightforward
black wasn't expecting this move because of
awfull awfull, though I don't see any good defence possible
huh...this move does nothing but help black
saving his knight...white lost two moves while black shifted to the king side completely
The Scotch opening -- already a pair of Knights have vanished.
Completing my development. Now the middle game begins.
Now I have a small edge AND a chance to swap off the heavy pieces, magnifying the Pawn up. This is the turning point of the game.
Make that zero. This move seals the win for me.
Now the wall of Pawns prevents Black's K from approaching on the Q-side.
Freezing the Q-side.
If someone better has time I would be glad to know if 10...Ng4!? is any good.
Now we had opposite coloured bishops in this game.
Now white is completely lost I have three more pawns fully open a b line for my two pawns and three pawns against whites two on other side.
Now white finally resigned as I had enough time to end this game and white has completely lost position. K R against my K R 5pawns
The King's Pawn opening, my personal favorite.<n><n>Note: be sure to read the full introduction to this game (click the back arrow)
This move seemed a bit strange to me at first.  However, it does a couple of things for black.  First, it expands on the queenside.  Second, it gives black's light-square bishop room to develop.  Third, it has the possibility of attacking my knight on c3 with the move b4.
With the kingside pressure inevitably mounting, trading off queens to reduce pressure is a good idea for black.
Removing the threat of black trading down material.  If I start trading down material, my chances of a successful attack dwindle.
Continuing to push away his minor pieces from my position.
Black doesn't have much choice.  No matter what happens I will have the g-file to work with for my rooks.  If he allows 20) gxf5 exf5, I will have a protected passed pawn on e5 and I will still have the g-file open.  However, 19) ... fxg4 has its own downsides, as shown in the annotation for the next move.
Although this move seems a bit counter-intuitive because it moves the bishop back to where it came from, it has plans of chasing away my rook with 28) ... Bf5.  Unfortunately for black, I now have a tactical shot to win another pawn.
Winning the second pawn.<n><n>Although I hadn't yet lost my other game in the tournament, I made the dangerous psychological decision of telling myself that I had already won this game.  Although black is down material and position in an endgame, he still has chances for counterplay.  Winning a won game is possibly the hardest thing to do in chess.  When your opponent is down and on the verge of destruction, he/she will be looking for his/her chances the most.  If you make one slip, the game might just slip away from you, and recovering from such a psychological blow can be very difficult.
Stopping me from pushing my passed h-pawn.<n><n>It was around this point in the game where I blundered in my other game.  I was frustrated at myself for making such a huge blunder in that other game (I was calculating a bunch of endgame lines and missed the fact that my first move allowed him to take my rook for free), and suddenly needed to win this game in order to advance in the tournament.  The psychological pressure definitely started affecting my moves, which were sometimes too forcing and not calculated enough.  My next move is a good example of this.
Offering a trade of rooks, which would effectively win the game for me.
Forced.  I now played a move which did nothing except move him into temptation.  My opponent played the first move I was looking for, but played correctly later on when I needed him to slip up a second time.
My opponent missed his immediate chance at a draw, and instead played what I had calculated out.
My opponent now has plans of moving his rook behind my passed pawn.  The way the board sits, it should probably be a draw.  The main reason I kept on playing was because I needed the win.  I saw that it would be hard for me to lose the position, so I kept trying to find the forced win, even though there really isn't one in this position.
My idea behind this move was to somehow win his pawn on a5 after getting my king to b5.  After the game, I later discovered that I should have instead played 52) Bf6.  The plan behind putting the bishop on f6 would be to put the bisop on d5 and the king on e6.  The most likely continuation would be 52) ... Rh1 [getting behind my passed pawn] 53) Ke6 Re1  54) Be5 Be7 [the only move to stop checkmate] 55) Rxa5.  This would win a pawn for me and give me a better shot at winning the game.<n><n>I think that a lot of the reason why I didn't see 52) Bf6 was because I was looking for a direct way to win.  Piling up pieces on a5 is the direct way to win the pawn.  However, black should still be able to pull off a draw in this position.  The only key difference between my position and black's position is that my king is active in the center, while his is pinned against the edge of the board.  With this, I have a small advantage and can try to use it to win the game.  Of course, the advantage is so small that the game should still technically be a draw.
Putting his rook behind my passed pawn and creating an odd symmetry in the position.
?? Black's costly blunder of the game.  Although it doesn't look like a complete blunder at first glance (no material is lost and it attacks my h-pawn), there is a crucial element to the position that loses the game for black.<n><n>White to move, mate in 5.
! To be honest, I didn't see just how powerful this move was when I played it.  It wasn't until I was looking at what to do for my 55th move that I found the win for white.<n><n>Now it becomes clear why 53) ... Be1 was a serious blunder.  Black's bishop blocks the checking square for black's rook!  Black has only one move to avoid Ra8#, which he played.
...and we've reached the position I looked at after 55) Ra8  Kg7 56) Bf6  Kh7.  Had I not gone through all the lines of 55) Ra8 , I don't think I ever would have found this position, which I have forced by changing my move order.  All it takes is one final nail in the coffin and black is done for.
! One final exclaim.  In the beginning of my final combination, his bishop stopped him from delievering check to my king.  Now in the ending, my own bishop stops him from checking my king!  At this point in the game black resigned, because there's nothing he can do to stop 58) Rh8#.<n><n>There's a certain beauty surrounding my final combination.  A checkmating net formed by a king, bishop, and rook.  A net where there was a single checking move before the final checkmate.  This brings up yet another theme: the threat is often stronger than the execution in chess.  If you leave several threats hanging in the air, your opponent will have to try to defend all those threats.  Once you grab on to one threat, though, your opponent no longer has to worry about many threats and can simply defend one.  One final psychological theme out of many found in this game.<n><n>Another note: the "need to win" was what caused my opponent to get back in the game, and it was also his downfall.  My opponent acknowledged that he needed to keep his bishop and pawn connected, and the game would probably be a draw.  However, he went for the "win" by attacking my pawn, not fully realizing the consequences.<n><n>I hope you enjoyed reading this annotation, and I also hope you learned something from it.  I hope you not only learned from the final combination, but also from the psychological themes that appeared in this game.  Psychology is a huge part of chess, especially in over-the-board games.
Oops, now what? The knightly fellow is tired of running, which would have bee the proper choice of action.
Bam, advantage black! White feels he has not shot himself in the foot enough times, and so...
Alright here's another end game,i am white,my opponent is black. This game is about grinding down your opponent with the center. having the center is extremely important in the end game,not having it can result a loss. In this game my opponent made a mistake causing him to loose the center and the game.
c5. now i am planning to move my pawn to queen. Look on the difference on the position now and after 38. Ke4. he has two pieces pushed down.
blockading the pawn with his king a king is a good blockader in the very end game due to if it gets knocked off it can simply move one step backwards and it will take time queening that passed pawn.
You see now what i mean with grinding my opponent down via center? he is cramped here in this position. It's like Kramnik,everyone keeps saying he is good on squeezing like this
Good game. and i hope you understand that i won because i managed to push his pieces of the center and make him cramped. that's why controlling the center is highly important in the end game.
This move, known as The English Opening came as a pleasant surprise to me. I play this opening myself and understand its subtleties and strategies.
The retreat 11 Bg3 also leads to an easy game for Black.
41.Rb2 	Rxg4  <n>42.Kh1 	Ng6 <n>43.Rf2 	Qe7 <n>44.Qd2 	Reg5 <n>45.Ra1 	h4 <n>46.c4!  	...<n><n>I have tightened the vice on the position, but 9K has hung in there, staving off a decisive breakthrough by putting his pieces on their best defensive squares. My main problem was finding a secure square for my king, a problem which I address with my next few moves.
58.Ke1! 	f2 ??  <n><n>Oh boy !!! This is not just a blunder - it is a crime. Black is very much in the game after 58...Rf4! 59 Kd2 fxg2 60 Qe3 Kg7! getting the king out of harm's way.
double d pawn opening. One important rule in these double d pawn opening is:<n><n>Don't block the c pawn with a knight unless necessary. Why? Because the c pawn's advance to c4(c5 for black) will ensure a breakdown of the opponent's d pawn, and thus breaking down or at least pressuring the pawn. Also, if it is possible in dd openings, the knight behind the c pawn will give that side more space and an easier game. The c-pawn gains central space.
yes. Now Black is really threatening to play Bb4ch, forcing Ke2, where his pieces may have trouble getting his pieces out. good.also, the space gaining b4 is an idea.
But this is useless.
not good. The d pawn is overloaded, trying to support c5 and the e5 knight. This is an important point. When looking at a position, ask yourself: <n>What are all the seeds of tactical destruction? these are:<n><n>1.pieces or pawns that must multitask.  2.loose pieces(unguarded)   think about if you can exploit any of this.
When up in material, it is not important to make threats. The correct move is maybe castling. Also, attacking with 2 pieces against an army spells disaster.
black is clearly better. he has 2 extra pawns.
unfortunately for black the rook cannot be trapped.
e4. Ah, my favorite opening. *cough* stupid d4... *cough*
Saw it coming.
Quick story time: I sometimes will be able to look 7 to 15 moves ahead and make the right decisions. this happens rarely though. With my ADHD, most of the time, i look ahead anywhere from 3 - 5 moves. I don't like long games, cause i can get bored... Here i was expecting 12. ... f6 13. exf6 Bxf6 14. Bxf6 Qxf6. My line of thinking went like this: I trade off his black squared bishop. yay! But then he is less cramped. A LOT less cramped. In the end this helped immensely.
a worthy try, but it fails due to the power of double check.
Kaboom. Hope you enjoyed this game and enjoyed finding my horrible mistakes like the community usually does. Peace =P
D4, I encounter many problems against this but also have lots of fun
After the exchange all is equal but white is ahead on development
Black now has many threats
The end is coming for White, Blacks's attack is unstoppable
and that works out as g6 - bg6 is my main defense in the queens pawn game.
but white didn't see it either, so I got my second chance.
?! this is inferior to 2. ...Nf6 because it hinders piece development. The general rule to keep in mind when playing through the opening is to develop knight before bishops, bishops before queen and Queen before rooks. If you follow this rule you will have a good position coming out of the opening 80% of the time.
Normally I would only recommend this move only after the majority of your pieces have been developed. However, this is an exception because 2. ...c6 has left ...e5 undefended. If black decides to capture with 3. ...exf4. Then white recaptures with e3 and Bxf4 to follow. <n><n>Strategically speaking 3. ....exf4 is very good for white because it weakens black's center by deflecting the e pawn away from the center while white's center pawns remain in the center. It also will give white the plus of rapid deployment of his pieces.
!! For the win. I win a pawn.
I don't think it really has a name, but 4...c6 is a gambit that will surely take White players by surprise in a blitz game.
Now that Black has completed development, it's time for the second strike at the center.
This isn't forced, Kasparov himself has played Qd7 is this position, although with not much success.
After 20. Nxd4 Qe8, White has problems defending the e-pawn.
Hoping to bolster the K-side pawns.
White sees the opportunity to save the g-pawn and takes it.
i played chessmaster computer,  this is how i win it. I name this opening my monkey moove... i thought that i cannot match the skill of the computer, so it would be stupid to make clever mooves...the monkey moove is jst that...(tip...jst flip the board, that way it doesnt feel as if its you who call the mooves)
protecting f3-its not good if pieces protect pawns...
developing...in stead of protecting....that is how you win this thng
if this undeveloped attack succeed....then its my game...and now you can see that he did waste a few developing mooves by those sacrifices i made early in the game
....or... it might think that from this position, it still have a higher persentage chance to win the game!
i lost so many times...i was jst as surprized
how can it be so easy...
Phillidor's defense.
Attacking the misplaced rook while opening a line for the bishop.
? Black was lost anyway, but this just drops the exchange.  After 21...Re8 22. Qxf6 gxf6 23. Bh4, black's losing another pawn.
! Attacking the rook that defends the knight.  Black loses the exchange and rightfully resigned here.  I hope you enjoyed this game.  BTW, as this is my second annotation and I'm not quite clear on some gameknot terms, how do I use/where do I find the star rating system?
Just a normal opening.
See what I meant?
It's ok.
I don't mind.
See?
Standard King's Pawn Opening
Sicillian Defense
The Spanish game
Black sees the problem and moves his king, unpinning the pawn on g6. But it's looking very bad indeed for black now! He is down two minor pieces and a pawn, his rook is trapped, and his king can't budge an inch either! It's difficult to find a good move for black here. I think best may be Bf8 to try to exchange bishops and take some of the sting out of the attack. But with so much material down even that isn't really going to help. You might have spotted that Black can't just capture the queen with 18. ...gxh5 either.
i think this is slow.
this ones too easy.
he now resigned a little late i think but it was still his best move
Developing, and again protecting d4 to give the queen the scope to move a bit. In hindsight I feel maybe Nge2 was a better move, as this would have made it easier for my DSB to emerge later in the game. I looked at this at the time but felt I shouldn't block the half open e-file.
Threatening the b7 pawn - I wasn't terribly happy with this move, but I'd spent a lot of time over the last few moves and didn't want to get into time trouble, and couldn't see a lot wrong with this. it at least removes the pin from the c3 pawn as well.
Black takes the exchange.
Finally after 22 moves the DSB leaves it's home square, I had been very conscious of it's lack of involvement so far (and the blocking in of the a1 rook), I moved it here as I also wanted to advance my Q-side pawns to light squares, so they don't become a weakness in view of only dark squared bishops being left on the board.
The d4 knight is hanging, so Black threatens it while staking a claim on the open d file.
I don't want black to have control of the only open file so feel I have no choice but to challenge it.
Obviously with fewer pieces on the board it would be harder to win but I don't want black to have full control of the d-file.
The king moves over with the idea of controlling d2 after Ke1 or Ke2. Obviously the black rook getting to d2 would be a major problem. I couldn't see any way for black to force the issue, nor for white to mount an effective attack from here. The other game had ended in a draw by now so the match was already lost, with this in mind I offered a draw here and black accepted.
this move transforms the game to Polish Game.
the threat is mate in two, 24. Bd5 Kb6 25. a5 #
After the Black Powder smoke is gone it is White's turn to fire and marches to a victory
I was satisfied with the outcome of the opening since I don't think white has any real advantage here
why Rd3?, I don't see why Rxc5 is bad
A little interlude to the Grand Tour match of fatcat2 vs Computers. Having played 4 games so far against various computers, I am beginning to feel that I'm missing something. What I need is a good example of how to beat my silicon opponents - and what better one to look at than the 1st game of the 1997 match of Garry Kasparov vs the updated Deep Blue?<n><n>We start with the Reti Opening. Quite a recent one, and a flexible opening as it offers opportunities to transpose into King Pawn, Queen Pawn or English setups.
The Keres Variation.
White has a solid, although possibly slightly cramped position. Notice the excellent control that his fianchettoed bishops have of the centre.
White is slowly, solidly gaining more space and advancing his pawns and pieces. The game has so far been very positional; I have seen no tactics coming into it, which is unlike Kasparov but I suppose a good policy against a computer.
If I did not yet know the result of the game I would say White is in a lot of trouble. Deep Blue is playing to the traditional strengths of a computer - tactical attacks -  while White seems to be forced into passivity.
i use to play this defense for e4 and d4, but it works better whith d4
sure it was the best choice for white
and ont have the choice i had to exchange
here we are ! i have a queen in a very god situation
Removes the threat on my bishop. The d file is opening up. this could be useful in the middle to end game.
So this was my second real game here and i know i made alot of mistakes mostly because i cant really play chess.
The Scotch Four Knights Game, can be reached from the Scotch Game.
Opening the way for his queen?  Disrupting my pawns?
The e file is a good place to attack.
But it really just lost me a tempo.
I don't stand a chance with a bishop and rook against a queen and rook, so I resigned.
Pressing forward on the Q-side. But Anderssen's K-side attack is ipso facto more dangerous, as it aims at the Black King.
This move wins a Pawn, but its real purpose is to allow the QR to participate in the defense.
Black has little choice.
After playing this move, Zuckertort resigned.
Alright, I wanted to annotate more games, but I haven't found a good game to annotate. This game is played against a much lower rated player, but the game is interesting.
?? e5. This move is only good if you know what the main line is. If you don't know the main line, then don't play this move. Best is simply take it with dxe5 but it leads to an interesting game. 2dxe5 Nc6 3 Nf3 Qe7 . Now this is where it is debatable if white should play Bf4 or not. Because 4 Bf4 Qb4+ which attacks both the undefended bishop and b2 but if white knows how to play this line he should simply play 5Bd2 Qxb2. It is now really tempting to play Bc3 but this is a losing blunder as black will respond with Bb4! so white should play Nc6 and white is now more developed and can exploit the open b-file by himself and will have a relative easy game.
But white doesn't take on e5 and wants to play a normal opening. I think d5 is better here. Also note if white played e4, the game is the same as 1 e4 e5 2 d4 which is a much more common opening game.
But white wants me to have an open f file in exchange for doubled pawns. White also has the bishop pair.
White surprised me with this. I think its a good move but also allows some weakness on the queen side.
!! cxd4 This doesn't lose a piece. I've analised this a lot and I always came up winning. But white didn't see it.
White takes the piece
It is all even, black has plans for the queen side
This was my 5th game here on GameKnot, that time I had a rating of 1200. Though I won this game my opponent should receive full credits, he played well and he made it an exciting game for what I am grateful!!
Najdorf (Sicilian) - a sharp weapon of many Super Grand Masters. As nearly all the weapons mankind has ever invented, this is double-edged. It is sharp and puts a huge pressure on White when played precisely but otherwise it backfires and Black practically commits a suicide.
more experimentation of the d4 opening.
I'm not gonna let this throw off my opening. I should mention this was game 3 with 5 second delay, it will explain some mistakes.
if you EVER want to tick someone off: push the pawn when they offer a trade. this also provided protectioin against Nc6 and helps really later on.
if you play this opening, you see this move 9 games out of 10, I'm not joking, it actually plays into the actual opening, but as you can see, I'm in mid game
note the simple beauty of this move: i now have two knights on e5 and a discovered attack on Nd5.
this game would've completely differently if Qxd6
gosh, this guy loves kamikaze pieces
don't you love it when black plays along?
see move 6.
white will attack on queen side. Looks clear. Seems that our pal has read the principle of the symmetrical english, which is the closer situation we have arrived on here.
king-side attack: i know my classic too. Though my own attack will not arrive soon, we may note that this f5-pawn will be the great winner of the game... Totally unexpected. We'll see that I counted more on my g-pawn later.
forced, but happy to do it. I saw the combination that will follow without a problem. I meant, not to have a piece for two pawns, as it happened, but to gain a lot of space. Later I thought it was risky, but, he, what good game is not?
apparently no choice. Opening the a column, to my great joy. I was thinking, after my next move, that he could imagine to take a8, but for me it was not a problem. It would have cut the attack in two. My own attack would then have been double: a column and f5.
it surprised me that he chose this variant. I foresaw it and thought it was not very intersting for him. but c5 is not very interesting: c5 dxc 20. dxc fxc and black is very strong.
so this is 2 pawns for a piece.
real target: h4.
panicking! why not Bxh2?... Whatever... after an excellent move 35, I lost 4 moves.
this is over. Thank you Nuntar: we made a lot of mistakes, but the game was beautiful
This is a game I played against perrinnn - he did well until he faced an unstoppable mate and resigned - enjoy.
This occurred in one of jkarp's games against redfox17. And now, if black plays Nxe4 Nxe4 and d5! this gives black an open game with good development - but I think that after Nxe4 5. Bxf7+! Kxf7 6. Nxe4 is better.
Now two pawns are lost via Nxe5.
But I give it extra protection.
? Adding to the double bishops lost, a knight is now thrown in the bag.
Dangers and surprises lurks in the background for any chess game. The unaware who falls into the trap is bound to suffer eternal damnation. Right so in the opening. Once in a while, we are bound to fall right into the opponent's hands.
My opponents usually accepts the gambit in the games I played in this opening. But this one, I was unmindful of the dangers that lies ahead.
This is the first time I encountered this move. It seems harmless but it is full of poison.
Playing an opening I am unfamiliar of, I, without hesitation, accepted the counter gambit staying true to the principle of the best way to refute a gambit is to accept it.
Right now, Black is developing freely with gain of tempo.
This game reminds me of the ones played by the immortal greats like Adolf Andersen and Paul Morphy wherein they sacrificed pieces in wild abandon just to mate the opponent's King.
Quick swap of pieces
Opening up the crowded corner
No choice
An unsound attempt to break free.  The Hungarian had t live with the idea of defending a backward pawn and to this end the best continuation was 15...exd4 16Bxd4!? (16 Nxd4 Na6 17 Rd2 Rad8  looks playable for Black) 16...Na6 17 Bxg7 Kxg7  18 Qd4+ Kh7 (it is important to put the king here in order to be able to repel the queen invasions on f6 with ...Ng8) 19 Rd2 Rfd8! (19...Rad8? (19...Rad8?  20 Qb6)  with chances to defend successfully, White can improve on this line by means of 18 Rd2! Rad8 19 e5 but Black's resources are not exhausted:  19...Nf5! (not 19...d5? 20 Qa1! with an attack)  20...Nc5 and it is not easy for White to win a pawn without allowing some counterplay.   Kotronias
I don't know why I did this.  It was a wasted move in my opinion.
I've dominated the opening and come out of it with development and space advantage... after a few blows in the middlegame black unfortunately timed-out
Queen pawns game
commetry by, Crazyeye180 (Black) and Davidtornheim (White)<n><n>the second in a series of (so far) two very very close games: the first was a queens gambit 1-0 (crazyeye180 white), and the third is currently in progress - a sicillian, Davidtornheim with the white pieces.
White:  Reti.  If I wanted a Queen's Gambit, I would have played 1. d4.
White:   Reti's reply.  Rybka and Fritz agree this is best.
White:	   Reti's choice.
White:  Time to start chasing the Queen around, while developing my pieces.
Black: 12.  0-0-0 perhaps is stronger? Making the most of white’s developed pieces – giving his centre a bit of a boost? Black hasn’t got a black bishop any more so there’s no threat of the pin on the queen, and white has time before black can activate his other pieces, and due to the black queen’s position …f5? To challenge the knight isn’t strong as it practically damns the knight and limits black’s castleing options. Though this line is interesting and might be worth looking into.<n><n>White: Rybka gives:  Be2 (0.10), Rd1 (0.03), O-O-O (0.02).
Black:  I don’t understand this. White’s knight is in a much better position than black’s and it’s moved more – therefore it’s worth more. Whilst this move does kind of force white to win another tempo on the queen white kills his own attack. Perhaps castling would be better. – let black deal with it and keep the initiative.<n><n>White: White and Rybka disagree with the above,and find castling on either side slightly inferior.  Rybka rates Nxf6+ at 0.13-0.18 and castling at 0.08 and O-O-O at -0.10 , a slight but significant difference.   White expected (and Rybka strongly advises)  13. … Nxe4 14. dxe4, because black would not tolerate the presence of this centralized knight.  Regardless of how that knight got to such a strong presence, white assumes his opponent will make the strongest move and it will be gone in one move.  Given its doom, white must decide:   is it better to be taken or to do the taking?  If white waits to be taken by black, he is left with two unprotected pawns and the Queen  wide open for attack by a rook on the d-file, that rook protected by the Queen safely at e7.    On the other hand, if white takes black’s knight first, black does not gain any tempo, because his Queen will have to expend a move recapturing.  This recapture move by black does not improve the his Queen’s position.   In fact, with O-O, the black Queen is in danger of the castled rook, which White hoped would be unveiled unexpectedly at a time inconvenient for black.  f4 nicely accomplishes this on the next move, a move that an overconfident White unfortunately overlooked. <n><n>So black’s Queen was safer at e7, and the recapture move was of no benefit and if anything lost time.   So, white ch
will be gone in one move.  Given its doom, white must decide:   is it better to be taken or to do the taking?  If white waits to be taken by black, he is left with two unprotected pawns and the Queen  wide open for attack by a rook on the d-file, that rook protected by the Queen safely at e7.    On the other hand, if white takes black’s knight first, black does not gain any tempo, because his Queen will have to expend a move recapturing.  This recapture move by black does not improve the his Queen’s position.   In fact, with O-O, the black Queen is in danger of the castled rook, which White hoped would be unveiled unexpectedly at a time inconvenient for black.  f4 nicely accomplishes this on the next move, a move that an overconfident White unfortunately overlooked. <n><n>So black’s Queen was safer at e7, and the recapture move was of no benefit and if anything lost time.   So, white chose to do the taking to prevent the undesired scattering of his pawns by the recapture preferring black’s recapture putting his queen in a possible line of fire at f6.<n><n><n>White did not seriously consider O-O-O because the King is a bit too vulnerable with the stray c-pawn, which can be easily attacked by Be6, a move Rybka recommends.   However, White concedes that O-O-O does appear to have a strong attack up the center, but with the Queen in the lead, and black’s queen side rook about to come out, it looks more like the attacking Queen would get ambushed rather than the reverse.<n><n>Black: Ok, perhaps this is a matter of taste. personally i would rather have the pawns on e and c unprotected and the fully open file with my rook and queen down the centre.
ose to do the taking to prevent the undesired scattering of his pawns by the recapture preferring black’s recapture putting his queen in a possible line of fire at f6.<n><n><n>White did not seriously consider O-O-O because the King is a bit too vulnerable with the stray c-pawn, which can be easily attacked by Be6, a move Rybka recommends.   However, White concedes that O-O-O does appear to have a strong attack up the center, but with the Queen in the lead, and black’s queen side rook about to come out, it looks more like the attacking Queen would get ambushed rather than the reverse.<n><n>Black: Ok, perhaps this is a matter of taste. personally i would rather have the pawns on e and c unprotected and the fully open file with my rook and queen down the centre.
White:   Black protects the a-pawn.  Rybka prefers Rd4 at this point; however, Black eventually discovers and plays it at move 20.
Black: close to even here I think with the main difference that black has command of the half open d file – I thought as this was my main advantage it was to be defended at all costs: hence move 20...<n><n>White:   Rybka agrees, rating it at -0.21.
White:  After many days mediation, this move appears the best way to deal with the unfortunate turn of events.  Rybka agrees this is best.  Before making this move, I spent most of my time worrying about vulnerability of pawns on the queen side and the danger of e4 attacking my beautiful bishop and threatening an attack on my Queen.  Then I notice the rook could move to the king side and support a large attack there.<n><n> <n><n>With h3, the plan is subtle but effective for three reasons:  (1) It eliminate one square (g4) from black’s already cramped bishop [and eliminates this useful square for black’s queen and rook as well].   (2)  White prefers to keep all his big pieces where they are, but doing nothing is not usually a winning strategy in chess.  This does something:  it advances a pawn.  If Black does nothing monumental next move, g4 chases off the bishop furthering the pawn advance.  (3) It gives the King a crucial escape square which is fully utilized later in the game.  White normally resists moving the three pawns in front of the king, but in this case, black has no dark-square bishop, and no easy way for black to exploit the hole created, and the advantages all outweigh the costs.  It also has the advantage of possibly lulling in the opponent to thinking white is being careless.
Black: Qg5 is interesting! After  26… f6 27. Rxe8+ Qxe8 28. Rxf6  black seems to have an advantage though the kingside threat is impressive<n><n>White:  Although White considered the moves that Rybka prefers here, notabley Qd2, Qd3 or Rxe8+, the exchange doesn’t seem to leave White with any real advantage.   However, Rybka thinks these lines are still better than the above, e.g.<n><n> <n><n>1. = (0.25): 26.Qd2 Rd4 27.Rxd4 exd4 28.Rxd4<n><n>4. = (0.08): 26.Rxe8+ Qxe8 27.Qd3 Rd4 28.Rxd4 exd4 29.Qxd4<n><n> <n><n> <n><n>compared with: <n><n>5. = (-0.02): 26.R8d7 Qh4 <n><n>White thought having the pieces out gave them more power to threaten Black with possible mate.<n><n> <n><n>              Note:  This move is a trap:  26. R6d7 Qxd8 27. Rxd8 Rxd8, costing white the two connected rooks in exchange for a Queen, leaving blacks’ Rooks ready to pounce on the back rank.  Black and White had longs discussions over whether this was playable for White, and eventually agreed it was not.  Rybka rates it at   -1.53.
White: The rest from here is easy for black with those two passed pawns. The best white can do is force black to retreat the king and capture a kingside pawn before helping the passed pawns to the end as with a move like 40. g4 etc. though this is a temporary reprieve, as … c3 traps the white king within two squares of c1.<n><n>Black: it wasn't completely obvious that black could take the queen - it occurred to me only after i was almost resigned to loosing a rook! however i think this is the move that removes all white's chances in this game - the c, d and b pawns are just too strong against that lonely a pawn.  however a very close game - with white more often than not ahead.
The third game from this mini tournament I have annotated and the second against spglenn.
After playing the Flohr variation last time I was hoping for a najdorf.
Don't exchange when down and also His Bishop is better than mine
I tried to find what this opening was called and I found it as Irregular opening.
Black see's the Queen takes h4 Rook takes g6.
No idea why I played this, but I was running low on ideas.
This is the Evan's Gambit- a popular opening in the 1800s, and is still played occasionally today. White gives up material to gain an advantage in development.
Dufresne gets the first opportunity in the game to castle, which he ignores. This delay in castling lands him a lot of trouble in the rest of the game.
Hello folks, my 2nd annotation of a fun game with an aggressive white.  Your comments will be read and appreciated.<n><n>My standard opening move.
The advance variation. I have almost no experience with the Caro-Kann, and the small amount of study I was able to put in before the game suggested that this variation doesn't require as much theory to back it up as 3.Nc3 I wouldn't play the exchange variation (3.exd5) as it seems to give black a much easier game. I also noted that Shamash (who is yet to be beaten on this site) has drawn more games of this flavour than the rest.
Stepping out of the Black Bishop's way and defending the e5 pawn. I was dreaming of ways to try to create a passed pawn to make life a little less comfortable for Black. The down side of this move is that Nd5 is no longer a good option due to a self inflicted pin.
But it isn't to be. The game was lost for White a long time ago, but now the writing really is on the wall.
And there it is. Thanks for a really instructive game shamash. I hope other readers can gain something from this game too. All comments welcome
I exchanged Knights so it would double Black's pawns on the e-file.
This is a strange game I've just played, with a final resignation that I don't understand.
Kieseritsky, Berlin defence. Never played such a game before, ready to learn.
He offered me his knight, just for taking mine and getting a great position. If I had accepted, it was lost.
In reply to the king's pawn opening, black plays the Sicilian defence.
Black accepts the gambit.
A form of Siberian variation is played, which could later develop in the famous "Siberian Trap" (where black captures white's queen), but otherwise still with potentially a better game for black.
Black needs to start developing the game, but does not have too many options.
Black defends the weak pawn, but has wasted a move.
Pushing the pawn to increase the pressure, while opening the white diagonal for the queen, in view of a deadly attack.
This is one of my favorite games I've played because a lot of tactics are used to chip away at black's defense. I hope you enjoy and give me some feedback so I can improve.
finishing my development a little late
wanting to trade and win the pawn
but the king side is his now
game
match. At this point my opponent resigned. I hope you guys enjoyed my game and please leave feedback
Caro-Kann opening.
...0-0-0?! While 0-0 is risky and this is common in the Scandanavian Defense main line, here White can rapidly bring every piece and a pawn storm to bear on the Black king.
Black resigns, the attack is too strong to defend against and a piece is lost.
I don't know if this was the way to proceed the game.
I don't if this was good.
I resigned.
Spanish Opening
The knight would be poorly placed on 10.Na3, So I reposition it it via f1. The knight will end up on e3 or g3. The choice usually depends on what my opponent does. This f1 maneuver is typical in this variation of Spanish opening
Don't like this. My opponent should be developing.The move in question also takes away protection of the b5 pawn. 11..Re8 instead
This just seems to loss the bishop pair as I can't see anyway of my opponent taking advantage of his lead in development
Don't know it this is a good or bad move.
I don't mind queens coming off as I'm not planning on attacking his king. With this position, I feel my opponents pieces are dis-coordinated
I think my pieces are more coordinate so I start with play in the center
My opponent couldn't play 24..Nxc3 25.bxc3 Nc6 26.exd6 wins a pawn for me and I'm more developed
losing move. The combination that happens wins two pawns of me
I've seen this many many times and trying to comment seems redundant to the Caro Kann Defense strategy.  The bottom line is grand masters use the Caro to date with acceptable success.  It is a defense for Black for Black to know what to do without the long and numerous moves in a Sicilian or the weak Ruy Lopez.  I rest the case to say my favorite defense as Black against e4 is the Caro Kann.  I have left the Sicilian and I had left the weak Ruy Lopez back in the 1980s.  To date the best defense against e4 open is Caro Kann.  Or, maybe, Alekhine's Defense! I've not lost faith with Alekhine to date! My records show it!
...so instead of retreating him into a tight formation in development that does not need him I trade it.
Rooks are always kind of slow in the opening.  They are heavy artillery and they need to have time to set up fire missions.
White has a queen dodging balls and a rook ready for the event I make a fatal mistake.
Another heavy coming to the arena of the dodge ball circle but it takes time for the heavies to really get into position in a tightly formed arena.
I loosen up the rook to tie with a rook and give more space to my king while white tries to get his heavy material into the attack in the dodge ball circle.  The cup formation and the Caro is one of my favorite formations against attack. It is good to defend and it is also good to attack at the right moment....
And now a brilliancy move two punch anticipated.  Never just trade away when other material is to be pinned and gotten.
I figured white should resign now but your opponent has every right in the world to continue and make the best of it.
Book.
Wow queen's out fourth move!  So much for development.
Whew.  Now time for a bit of development.
Ugg why didn't I see this one Bf5 covers Kxc2. Can't take him with the Queen
Which he takes full advantage of...
In the moment I play this variation
Gambit - White's one pawn late but has 3 pieces out against one for black
Seems to be the best move in this opening.
The most agressive response.  If 7. ... Bxc3 8. bxc3 white has an isolated pawn but 4 pieces out against one for black and very strong attack possibilities for white on the center.
No choice for white.
No choice for black
White didn't see the point of this move.
Black didn't see it coming
No choice.
I don't know the name of this opening but in game this played out to a reverse Alekhine.
Leaves black with an uncomfortable choice of recaptures.
This actually was black's best move, regaining a pawn for the piece.
en passant wins the game!
Practically a smothered mate.  This mate has been known to occur when white moves his king to g1 in the king's gambit.  I hoped you all enjoyed this short, humorous (to me anyway) game.
Up to here the play has been standard.  The book would dictate 4. ... Nc6 and there really is no excuse for this move.  It does lead to the pawn push which contains White's Queen-side somewhat, but it retards development and chokes the Queen's knight.
The knight's reign is at an end, but White now has two bishops and two extra pawns.  The win should be fairly straightforward.
The pin looked worse than it was, but Black has accepted an exchange which leaves him relatively weaker.
Game.  The early development proved to be the difference
the most logical move, driving away the queen while developing a piece
The next couple of moves are just simple development
Black develops his last piece, while at the same time connecting the rooks. However, this is where things start to get complicated for both sides...
White changes his mind about the queen - however, this allows a sneaky little trick from Black, that eventually wins back the lost pawn
but Black declines, while threatening the b-pawn
the play continued 32...a5 33.Qe8  Qf5 34.bxa5 bxa5 before the draw was agreed on, but I find this last position so much more pretty - every piece is defended (save Black's f-pawn and White's a-pawn, but they can be easily defended if they get attacked) both kings are safely tucked away in their own fortresses, and neither side has an attack. Good game!
This is an opening I've used when I first started playing chess, but I've stopped using it because there are much better openings
chases away the bishop, and wins back the lost pawn
but not this time!
*bangs head furiously against wall* this is the worst mistake anyone can make in a chess game! What the hell was I thinking?
well... let us see
and we are in to the game !
Let Sleeping Threats Lie.<n><n>I tend to be a very blunt player. I'm not subtle enough and I tend to fret overly about material, so just occasionally when I get it right it feels very good.
Powerful central development, now lets see what else we can bring in....
Now normally I would have gone for the exchange, but still in the mood to let the threats develop and my opponent to worry himself.
k-b8 would have saved him, debateable for how long but even so....
An odd move which is not even mentioned in the oddments columns of MCO14 Should be an interesting game This is where depending on sound guidelines for the opening rather than blindly following an opening book scores.
Normally I would exchange cxd5 but the odd opening would have put ne in a bad position so e3 defends c4 with the B This precludes my fav Bremen variation - g3 Bg2
beginning a string of checks hoping to salvage at least a draw from the game
A fairly standard sequence of exchanges for this opening.
I have regained the gambit Pawn. The middlegame is even at this moment, with my spatial advantage balanced against White's passed Pawn. I have to convert my advantage into something tangible because if an end game is reached the passed Pawn becaomes a much larger advantage for White.
Whie has to move his Rook away, and he does.
This is the first notable move, avoiding all the Sicilian main lines, this is called the Chekhover Variation. I really didn't think this was good for white, and it probably wasn't, but my inaccurate moves probably cost me the game.
Here's where I think I go wrong. Yes, I'm forcing him to trade of his light squared bishop for a knight in an open game, but I am hindering my development far too much and this could have been what cost me the game.
White: Two developed pieces and controlling the center. Black: 0 developed pieces and cramped. Guess who will win.
Further increasing his development lead. I don't like my game too much at this point. His developed pieces and central control look overwhelming.
So I retreat, and now I have zero minor pieces developed, my rook is kind of active but my development is so far behind that it doesn't matter. He has developed all his minor pieces plus the queen, and he can now castle either side if he wants.
Every one of his pieces is working towards the same goal. Central control and destroying my king. I was left with very few move options after this.
I was hoping for this. At least I will be up in material, even though I am far behind in development.
Still trying to develop. This is move 17!!!! I haven't developed two minor pieces yet.
I had seen that h3 was immune, but black blunders massively, in a won position, and up 4 units of material.  If nothing else, this game illustrates how in blitz, it can be good to stick with a lost position.  I think that after Nb4, black relaxed a bit and didn't play accurately enough to keep me out of the game...
This game is me vs Perfect Chessmate custom personality Fletch2280. This is a Windows98 era computer game which is being run on Linux using Wine. The game has computer AI opponents, but also provides custom opponents that can be made with various capabilities. A rating is created as you dial in opponent features. <n>- - -<n>I created this opponent as follows (numbers are percentages except search-depth): search-depth=9, center-control=69, aggressiveness=69, experience=100, randomness=50, mobility=60, king-safety=61, pawn-safety=61, draw-contempt=50, for a total strength of 2280 per the game.<n>- - -  <n>I begin the game with my standard 1.e4 looking for a fight.
Black plays the beginning of a Sicilian indicating a reciprocal desire to fight. This opening provides an unbalanced position which provides both sides opportunities for play.
Following the standard main line of the Sicilian. The knight is played for development and for center control.
Fletch2280 steps out of the standard book move of [2... Nc6, d6]. The text move begins the fianchetto position typical of a Dragon, but without the normal move sequence. This move does not offer an advantage because it is a tempo behind the action that takes place at d4 after [3. d4].
What options are available for black at this point?  Consider [8...Qb6  9.Nb5! Qxd6  10.Nxd6 ] if then [10...Kd8 to protect the bishop, then [11.Nxf7 !] and the rook is lost. Not effective for black is [8...Qb6  8.Nb5! a6?  9.Nc7 ]. No better is expecting [8...Qe7  9.Qxe7 Kxe7], because there is still the knight move [8...Qe7 9.Nb4! a6?  10.Nc7  Kf8  11.Qxe7  Kxe7  12.Nxa8] and white stands better. Another bad try [8...a6  9.Bg5!] and the knight is both pinned and lost with a queen attack pending and mate to follow. The real problem for black in this position is the serious bind placed on the d and f pawns, the lack of development, lack of a black squared bishop. The text [8...Nc6] is an attempt to clear some pieces on the back rank to activate the rook, but there is not enough time.
A surprising mate in 18 against the dreaded computer. I really had no expectation of achieving this, even though I always play for a win, even against the AI. The main failing of black in this game was overlooking the knight incursion [6.Ndb5] and [7.Nd6 ]. The position leans heavily to whites favor after the BxN QxB exchanges. There were other weaker moves made also which contributed to the win.<n>- - -<n>It is possible that the Nb5 maneuver was not in fashion back at the time this program was created and so maybe it was not in its book. I was lucky to have considered it because of seeing it in some Kasparov games that I have been studying. This was a very pleasing win considering how many times the AI has beaten me. I am going to enjoy this while I can in case it is my only win against this level.<n>- - -<n>I can of course dial the level down to a lower elo, and do play at lower levels. But I wanted to see what would happen if I played up some. This game will play some crazy stuff at the lower levels which can tend to demolish me. Much different play than any other chess software, and good for keeping me sharp - I hope.
An interesting move that offers a pawn to start an immediate attack on the Black kingside.  In the days of romanticism, where gambits were always accepted, this led to some spectacular defeats for the second player.  Today, with defensive technique much stronger, this variation is almost extinct.
This keeps the queen available for the defense of the kingside if needed.
I don't think this this wins by force, but White responds badly.
Preparing ...Qb4 and a final assault on the White position.
White is lost now.
So, what's the compensation. Black is 3 pawns up but White has a lead in development. the black king is stuck in the middle and lines are open for the rooks.
I was mad at myself when I went online, and found out my queen was gone. I was mad, and I didn't have a chance at this game.
White really needs to develop his queenside. Black has a solid defensive position, although prospects for an attack are not too bright, and that stranded queen is still a worry.
This move is not the usual move played in this variation of the Sicilian defence. Usual is 8...B5, 9 Bxf6 gxf6 10 Nd5 whereby white obtains a small advantage. This is anyway not a bad move tough.
So this is not so good. On the other hand black has problems to develop the pieces. In nay way white already obtained a big advantage. This move just makes it worse and thats because of the next move
Bxa6!! a striking and winning piece sacrifice. Black is lost!!!
English Opening
Black is possibly hoping for a cxd5 or exd5 but it is to my advantage that he would dxc4 or dxe4 so I wait.
Kg3 is in preparation of h4.
Black doesn't mess about with his queen out in the open, but retreats to set up his pieces for what should be a favourable end game, as he is a pawn up and white's pawn structure on the queen side is messed up
black trades off to take away tension from the board and make transition to a won end game more comfortable, but it comes with the down side of fixing white's pawn structure.
Given that black will win back a knight with e4 on his move, playing Nxe4 first is better. This still loses a pawn through 23...Bxe4 24. xh5 xh5, but at least in that position, black has a bunch of weak pawns, rather than a pawns on f3, preventing my king to move out in the end game.
Preparing for an exchange sequence
and we've entered the end game. White seems heavily disadvantaged, but it didn't look much better before the exchange if for example Qd2 would have been played, rather than Qe2
With the black king this far advanced and two pawns down, there really is no hope any more, since the pawns on the king side should easily overwhelm me. I rather pointlessly played some more moves.
This move initiates the Evans Gambit. The Evans Gambit happens to be <n>  another old-time favorite. White sacrifices a pawn so that he can gain time by<n>  pushing Black's Bishop around. Players these days prefer 4. d3 for a much <n>  quieter game.
The point of this move is to  <n>   1. Attack Black's Bishop<n>   2. Getting ready to play 6.d4 ( which was played in the game)<n>   3. Allowing the Queen access to the Q-side when it will go to b3 set up a <n>       battery on the a2-g8 diagonal and attack Black's weakness ( the f7 pawn)
Development.
Getting of the very dangerous b1-h7 diagonal.
my standard attacking opening
time for an attack!
Don't blink! The statues move!
randomness? good idea for future for all players who have done this look to see if there's a checkmate before you move......
OK, I'm now thinking probably Nadjorf but I'll have to wait and see
Black queen retreats in anticipation
Check - no choice for a reponse
Retreat - I have doubled pawns but much better development
Black opts for a pawn charge on my castled position.  No urgent problems for white so development continues
To cut off the rook but black didn't see what was coming
I'm not sure he shouldn't have let me exchange knights, seperates his pawns
I don't know if Black saw this finesse, but it stops all hope of Black mounting an attack on the a8-h1 diagonal.
This seemingly harmless pawn move is actually the beginning of the end for Black.
This move deserves a double question mark. From here on, Black is lost.
It's mate in two, so Black resigns.
Second MT game vs rjfsmith.  a close game until an ambitious exchange sequence initiated  by black shifted the game slightly to white.
English opening with heavy white pawn presence in the center.
kicks R out of white's side of the board.
black resigns.  a fun game with the opposing sides being interestingly out of balance.  Thank you to rjfsmith for another good game.
I don't make any inaccuracies in this opening, but slowly my first-move advantage slips away and Black gets quite a lead. And then messes it up - or does he?
We both develop normally, and I see the advantage of Black having the dark-squared Bishop on e7, behind the pawn chain. It doesn't get driven back and can join a K-side attack.
Allowing the Queen the option of heading to the Q-side and preparing for a possible d5.
Back on the Q-side, Black is opening a file for his Rook.
Black has conceded control of the a-file, but taken my Queen away from the main game.
Black has built up a strong K-side attack now.
Black builds up against it. I can't see I've done anything wrong, but I'm under a lot of pressure!
And instead of retreating as per the computer's drawn repeat of moves, Black advances his f-pawn and I'm in real trouble.
Panic, and I've lost my Rook and the game. 33.Ra1 with the threat of check on a8 might have given me a little more time.
But now I'm too far down in material...
Hi everyone, this match was against the highest rated player in my 1700-1800 mini-tournament, in fact just before the draw offer his rating was 1851.  This was a strange game of which again I was struck down by passivitis and I found myself exchanging my opponent's horsies which were threatening to run riot in my position for both my bishops.  I was very lucky to draw this game, how lucky only you the jury can tell me.  I kick off with e4 and my opponent gives me the Sicilian (c5).
8. cxd4 - pawn trade.
15. ....... Rxd6 - now we have a queen trade.  I now complete my development with 16. Be3.
22. b4 - looked good at the time, trying to prevent Nc5 but my opponent has ways of working his knight into my position.
27. ....... exd4 - although black's d pawn is passed at least it is an isolani.
29. .......... Bxd5 - this time Fou Leblanc departs for the remaining horsies.  2 knights against two bishops is a disadvantage I am told in an endgame.  How much of a disadvantage I am about to find out.
But I took anyway. Partly because I see no other move, partly because I was interested in how the opponent's combination would unfold. The Gameknot computer that analysed the game after it was finished was okay with this move, but, frankly, I don't believe it. I think the game was lost at this point.
takes pawn
takes pawn
really slow in development
takes pawn
This is actually a bad move, but I make it with the knowledge that my opponent will make a move at random, and not just take my completely undefended pawn. This is a very attractive checkmate in 1 for me. I've never checkmated anybody with just a pawn...I don't think.
The queen seems to randomly slide to the side. Or maybe it saw the checkmate coming, and made a slightly comprehensible move...no telling.
If it were a real game I would snatch the rook, but this game is taking too long, and I'm starting to feel embarrassed, so I go for the mate. None of this would ever work against a real opponent. By playing against the monkey program I am anti-learning.
I win. I can't even say gg. However, I don't think this "monkey" level program is completely useless. I think it would make for a satisfying game for a complete beginner who is just learning how the pieces move. In my opinion it would be exactly the right level of non-frustration level. The kids have a guaranteed win, pretty much. I'm going to try it with my students later.
Queen's pawn, Chigorin Variation.
Black usually plays Nf6 here for good effect, though this is the second most popular response.
Oh, no!  Disaster!  Black should have played Kd8 or perhaps Kf8 (which would let white force a rook trade).  Kd7 gives white the black queen free and easy with Bb5+.  :(
ahhhhh it didn't work next time maybe.
I nearly missed this and immediately put my queen on c8.  I figured out in the end that my rook was lost and it would possibly be rook for rook but this way I get his bishop as well.
This confused me.  He must know I would go Qxb7 what is this for. It also opens up the check.
Book.
Portisch has a slight lead in development.
Bobotsov is a Pawn down with a shattered position. He fights on for a short while longer.
The Classical variation
A well known position from this opening
Although the centre isn't strictly closed given the open d-file I thought it worth the risk of advancing the Q-side pawns despite having castled Q-side
.The opening resulted in a very closed game, were both sides avoided exchanges, until black decide for a centre pawn break with 11...d5 and after white's move decided to precipitate the action by exchanging the pawns, then instead of dealing with white threats (black had a pawn hanging and a knight pinned), black decided for an unneeded move 13.h6 after which white took the initiative and due to a cramped camp by black with lack of connection between pieces, white went on to win the game.
Portuguese opening
no problems for white in opening the d column, it might even try to place a rook there latter on
a very slow opening in my book
black is litery asleep
*please note i see the discoverd check but i know it is futuile at this point, the queen only takes my knight and i gain nothing*
i have no choice but to this check now.
!? 5...Bd7 is the main line,but this move is not bad.
This game features a Caro-Kann with opposite castles. This style of play has gained quite a recent following, one of the prominent players being GM Mihai Marin.
The most principled move. Black has many defensive resources here and White certainly isn't winning but he gets a strong initiative for his invested material.
This is the actual novelty and improvement over 17.Qc4 which was played in my database game. It offers a whole piece for the attack. White isn't winning here, but he has a lot of threats, especially if Black dares to take the piece.
Black connects the Knights, he keeps the g-file closed, but at the same time, he removes one piece from the d-file so that only a pawn now separates the White Rook and the Black Queen. The Ng4 is also in the air.<n><n>It's really hard to find a move for Black here. Perhaps liquidating some material with 18...Rxf3 19.Qxf3 Ngf6 20.dxc5 Qc7, but after 21.Qg2, things look grim.
Black's position is hard but not completely lost, he could still hold on with 20...Qd6 21.Ng6+ Kh7 22.Qf5 Kg8 23.Nxf8 Rxf6 24.Rxg4 Nxg4 25.Qxg4 Qf4<n><n>A premature resignation to say the least.
Here is a decent game i played with the white pieces against shyon4944. i decided to go with queens gambit.
queens trapped here.
thats a naty discovert check and an attack against the queen.
the game is all over for black at this point
always good to exchange pieces when up in material.
Obliterating the pawn so white has no protection.
sicilian defense
And so we have this variation. Its not the most common variation in the sicilian.
This is out of book, usually Ndb5 is played.
Black takes my bishop with check.
Queen takes.
Advancing the pawn, this move stops the knight standing on f6, which is always the key feature of the defense on the kingside.
Im happy with this move. I dont really see what it does. Probably better is just take on c3 to get nasty double pawns and try to attack it with Qc7 maybe?
This would be losing if it wasn't with check! Im threathening Nf6+ and after gxf6 I win with Qh7#, or black has to give away the queen. But the threat is still there.
Didn't really know what to play here, so I decided to trade pieces.
queen takes.
This is too slow, but I don't know if black has any good move at all.
check! Kg5 saves the day for black. He would probably have won. Even Kg4 too.
Black counterblunders!
A mistake, he did not calculate the variant, white is winning, the best way for black would be exd4 and then put pressure on e4 with Re8 - this kind of game is difficult for black - to get out of the limited space, but normally black wins if he mange to get a good development.
f6 does not work - or is no better, white play Nxd7 and take the rook - i.e. just exchange pieces and white is up with 2 pawns.
Black is getting some activity for his 2 pawns, but the white c and d pawn are very strong.
Team match. This game took over 10 weeks to conclude, but it's only 35 moves long. We were just taking our time I guess. Back then, I was rated 1504 (I had completed only 26 games on GameKnot at that time) and my opponent was rated 1490. Our first game ended on 2/24/09 and is annotated, titled Aggressive Plans on that date. It's a short little gem that ends on move 26 after white walks black's king over to whites side of the board for a checkmate. White begins this game with the queen's pawn, and I reply Indian.
Let's see if this passed pawn can make something of himself.
31. ... Qh3!! needs a pair of exclamations. Well, maybe only 1. It's one of the scariest moves I've played in a long time. Black is leaving his rook en prise, and white can capture it with check, gaining a tempo. That's usually certain doom, but oddly enough, in this case, even that extra tempo won't let the white queen return to defense in time as she has to run around the forest of black pawns. There is always the fear of perpetual check, and 3-move repetitions, but nothing of that sort presents itself to white either, so it's time for the poor rook to take one for the team.
White took the bait, and now he's doomed. I suspect he may have realized it too, for he didn't return to this game for almost the full three days. I took the time to enter the final Conditional moves, in all their possible combinations, including queen stalling moves with Qh8+, Qg8+, Qf8+, and Qxf7+ (which came up in several combinations, adding 4 extra conditional variations to each combination), and ended up with something like 25 or 30 combinations. The immediate threat, of course, is 33. ... Qh7#
My Scottish oponent takes the opportunity to get the 2 bishops.
White now has a massive centre, but the exchange of minor pieces eases Black's position somewhat. Do you think it was a mistake by me to force off the white squared bishops?
and draw agreed on Black's suggestion. The question is - who is better in the final position. Material is level, with pawns on both sides of the board, the bishop is better than the knight. Also in these sorts of positions, it is better to have the passed pawns on the side away from the kings, ie the Queen side. On the other hand white has two passed pawns, the e pawn is further up the board than the passed a pawn black has. over to you dear reader - who do you think is better?
opening up a right flank attack
Pretty normal looking game so far. White has the lead in development.
Not sure why I did this move. It just felt right.
? Not a good choice. Seems smart but leaves black open for an attack.
Black proceeded to use the next 7 minutes of his time to timeout in true blitz fashion.
??.  Both players quite remarkably missed the simple 41.Bxg4!, which leaves the outcome of the game totally unclear.
99% of players go like this, when the tought move for me to meet would be cxd4, and I don't know how to unbalance the game in my favour.
The weack side of his good move...
No evil in closing the diagonal for the B: it is useless right now.
I'll let the B diag open, but this is a very poor move. I'ts up to black to show me how to break in.
Unpinning, it's ok.
Here, I missed the winning f5!, and if black retires the N, Ne4#! Beautiful, and I missed it. i also missed BxN, and after Rxe5 the two joined passed pawns should win easily.
...and my opponent fell in his own trap. He surely didn't see my next move...
In this game black deviates from normal lines immediately and pays a heavy price. This game is an instructive game that demonstrates what happens when you move your queen out too early.
This a blunder. For one it hampers blacks development of the G-Knight. Second this is not the queens ideal developing square. Usually, the queens ideal developing squares are c7, e7, d7 or a5. As a rule the queen should be one of the last pieces to be developed
This maybe to premature it is usually better to complete your development before you bring your attack.
Black has eliminated his only active piece and given up most of his control of the centre.
nope this help white more than it helps black. The check has not real teeth. So why play it! If I were white I would thinking hum black has not real plan. So I can consolidate my position before black figures out what he wants to do. <n><n>Better is Bd7 which develops a piece and prepare for the connect of the rooks after 0-0
not good! the queen is much stronger on e3 for the moment. Black can try to win with h4!
too slow. Black has to play with vigor if he hopes to win.
Black has made many moves that have done little to help him. Ba5 is not real threat because most of blacks pawns are on light squares.
An unorthodox move for white. I did this to throw off my opponent, since he probably knows the sicilian better than I do. As we'll see, my suspicions were correct, and once we leave the main-line sicilian, this guy has no idea what to do. Classic sign of a guy who memorizes openings but doesn't actually know how to play them.
Probably not the best move here, but it's already too late to try to counter white's initiative. Black has to pay for his horrid opening play.
He still thinks I'll let him get the b-pawn. This guy has such epic tunnel-vision that I'm not surprised that he lost so badly.
Now black has to think about developing safely, with the semiopen b column. b6 was simple and wise, but it seemed not enough to me, so...
Now, the simple RxB wins. But I DIDN'T SEE IT! My fault. It seems so easy, but I was so focused on the possibilities of that pawn in c3 that I overlooked it.
I lost, but the opening was good.
white has the advantage
but suddenly black is back in the game
Pirc defense.
Here. This is the position. Now, what is wrong with my next move. It doesn't com up on either World or Gameknot DB, so please tell me.
Black is +2 up and about to win the a2 pawn. I see nothing wrong with this position. I hope someone can tell me what is wrong with the game I just played. Hope you enjoyed the game and enjoyed trying and possible succeeding in what is wrong. Thanks for reading!
Scotch opening. Or as GK opening database says "Four knights opening. Scotch variation". In this opening whites try to gain small positional advantage
Main line of blacks defense
This move finishing development solves problem with hanging rook at e1. Position is technically won by white, with tiny practical chance for black somehow force perpetual check.
Stock standard opening
stopping fried liver, most guys dont have the balls to proceed with echange 2 pieces for a rook and pawn, however it is more difficult to handle and coordinate 2 pieces
offering the trade
I saw the danger and stil played this, stupid boy, wanted to gobble pawns
The "Quiet Game"... but not this time!
Black tries to get his R and Q involved in the defense. Now the Q can move to B1 and attempt to break White's attack by offering the exchange of Queens.
White takes advantage of the pin on Black's KRP to force home his attack before Black can marshal his defenses.
a line that I haven't seen before.  I'm sure that it has a name and a following, but from here on out, I'm out of book, which is probably exactly what Black wanted.
Opens up the e-file, which at this point is probably not an ideal situation for either side, but since White has the tempo, black in is even more trouble.
Nd4???  Black wins with the simple c3.  White has nowhere to go and no way to prevent Qb2.  However, black was to caught up in trying to trade pieces down because of his three pawn advantage to see that he had a mate.  This is another reason why the "guidelines" in chess are often meant to be ignored.  It is much more important to see the position than it is to memorize catchy little sayings about Knights on the Edge...
When someone plays this opening, specially against my favorite London attack, I have always the feeling that I must be able to destroy him. And I never do. <n>So I do actually fear of players that use it against me. They must be very sure of a deep knowledge of it to play it. I started to fight against my fear of this opening. And willing to face it, of course, with all my senses alerted and a desire to be very, very bad with him, a desire to finally beat this "ugly" and "weak" scheme that... beated me so many times!
You will say that c4 was the good one. And it probably is. But I have not read any book, and I know that normal moves are faced, they always are. But I believe in my God: the London System. And in this scheme, the queenside is very hard to attack for black, far and unaccessible as the peak of a high and rocky mountain. Too bad if it seems a loss of time, or a bad move...
Experience told me that, with some care, this advance is not good for black, in the long term. So, this move, that probably he played in order to making me pay for my bad opening, didn't mean any aggression to me, being just a part of a masterplan, "my" London System attack, in which this knight never plays a real threat (if I play with the due care to black queen and bishop). <n>Now, the natural move, here, would have been to protect the h4 pawn, maybe with an ugly move like g3... bleah! It stinks. Where is the attack in g3? It just builds a trap for my beloved bsb.
It seems that black has an attack, but he would have to prove it.
The "normal" one would have been Ne5. This allows black to take the h pawn. But... this way, he also gets it, and besides, the knight would be in a horrible positiont. Do I have trap for him? No, I really didn't. I was just playing as if I had it (the previous procedure is dangerous. Don't try it at home or without your's parents advice! :-)
I didn't see it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!<n>ALL my plan - to sacrifice the h pawn in order to unbalance the center in my advantage - was pure crap. <n>And I didn't see it.  <n>Incredible (ejem :-). <n>I could hardly believe it... how could I been so stupid? <n>Oh, no, another sillyly lost game!
I tried not to change queens, and maybe I should have avoided it. But you see, I was discouraged. I was not trusting anymore my game. I couldn't see anything better that to wait for the ox to fall on my face...
He choosed to defend. He couldn't have done this having played the knight to d7, as I suggested before. <n>Hmmm... it's looking as if black is starting to have the urge to be careful, to take care of his weaknesses... more than attacking (which I think it would have been his better plan). <n>And this is the reason he doesn't see the horrible blunder that this moves represents. I checked it a thousand times, just to see what I could be losing after the piece win... and now, the game was psycologically reverted: now I am the one looking for a masterplan in my opponent's game... a masterplan that probably didn't even exist! <n>So I went for it.
Now, it is true I lost my beloved bishop pair but... you have to give something if you want to get something... now I am in advantage. What I pronosticated became true: he went inaccurated against a complex game. In other words: I have been able to find the small pieces of advantage, to have put them together and to get something from them... yummmm!!!!!
Now, you see, the knight is not in danger, while the black king stays where he is. And to move it is a tempo I could have taken some advantage. <n>True. <n>But... except for this detail of taking back a rook for a knight because of the ckeck, the check itself wasn't really a great progress in the attack! My attack (I started thinking in attack! This is a nice turn for me!).<n>And you see, my pressure over g7 is mild, unless I double my rooks (still far). So, what if I don't take advantage of it, and let me exploit the OHTER threats I could do? A far better one came to be...
Oh, yes, this "little" detail. Now, I have to fight against the e pawn, threatening to crown in e1. So, back to the hard thinking. <n>It was hard because I bet that he doesn't have the chance to make suffer with his pawns, but... I cannot be so sure. I, again, played "as if" I was sure of it.
I didn't defeat the f5 scheme of my opponent, but I won a lost game. With a great help by his side. I'm sorry for him.
Alternative variation: 21... e5 22. h4+ Kh5 23. Bf3+ Bg4 24. Bxg4#
From a tournament, my second game with Jbravo58d. I lost the first one on passed pawns. White's first four moves and Black's first 3 are a theme opening of the tournament.
In this variation, black queen comes out on f6 to defend the e3 pawn. I usually do not like taking out my queen early and I think in most cases it is a mistake to defend a piece with a queen anyway.
Black defends it again with the bishop on d6. If it was not for the themed opening with the first four moves set, I would have played d5 to restrict the black queen and c1-g5 to a attack the black queen and after f6-g6, develop my knight on b1 to c3 to defend my e pawn
This is the first "free" move of black. He moves his queen to g6 and attacks the e pawn
White ignores the attacks on the e pawn and takes Black's e5 and attacks the black bishop on d6. Black can play g6xe4 check, and probably the best move for white at that point would be d1-e2. f1-e2 would be met by d6xe5 with a Black strong attack on b2 and White rook on a1. Therefore, if 5... Qxe4+, 6.f1-e1 Bxe5, 7. Nxe5 Qxe5 with a fine game for Black despite being behind in development
Black protects the d5 pawn. So far, so good. I attack, attack, attack. He defends, defends, defends
Black prepares for opening the h file
There, game set. The position is irretrievable. Black resigns
a bit early for this trade, castling is better here
I was black in this game.
I was expecting d3,  but this seems fine for white.
This is one of the times you shouldn't move a piece twice in the opening. I think Bc4 or Nbd2 were better.
Yes, I have moved this piece twice, but I thought that it was better placed at f6, and my development is equal.
If I didn't support this with b6,  I would have lost a pawn to dxc5.
Developing, while keeping the bait on the string.
He lost another tempo here.
It was either this or Kg4. Here my log stopped, but we kept on playing until I checkmated him. I remember a few more moves.
but not stop it...
Here Qf4 would finish the game. Cause after gxf5 white has Nf6 followed by Qh6 black cannot avoid mate. I played an automatic move despite having around 1 hour on the clock.
Still, white has a strong attack after Bh6+ followed by Qf4. In this moment i saw the previous move would finish the game and i regretted it. Here I calculated Bh6 but had a funny lil mistake on calculation and played a bad move.
0-1   I tried hard but paid the bill caused by playing extremely fast. This was a good lesson for me. Hope I will learn to play in a tournament.
Anderssen, after La Bourdonnais and Staunton, was one of the pioneers of the Sicilian Defense
(!) Anderssen finds the sharpest reply
Black resigned in view of the continuation 17...Nxa1 18.Rf1+ Ke7 19.Qxe5+ Kd7 20.Be6+ Kc6 21.Rc1+ Kb6 22.Qb5#<n>1-0<n>An impressive defeat of the champion of the Old World! This game lasted all of half an hour. After gaining revenge on the 77th move in the very next game, Anderssen joked gloomily: "Morphy wins in 17 moves, whereas it takes me 77. However, this is still bearable..." By winning the 11th game, Morphy won the match (+7 -2 =2), and thus in just one year he had clearly demonstrated that he had no equal in the world.<n>"Morphy possesses the secret of invincibility," the newspapers enthused. The loser of the match, although shocked, also worthily assessed his opponent's immense triumph, publicly declaring that Morphy played much more strongly and solidly than La Bourdonnais, and admitting: "It is useless fighting against this man; for me he is too strong. He is accurate and faultless, like a machine, whereas I am only a mere mortal..." Later, Anderssen shared a very important observation: "Morphy treats chess with the seriousness and conscientiousness of an artist...For him a game of chess is a sacred duty..."<n>Before Morphy left Paris, a splendid farewell banquet was held in his honor. To the applause of the public, the chairman Saint-Amant crowned with a
used. The loser of the match, although shocked, also worthily assessed his opponent's immense triumph, publicly declaring that Morphy played much more strongly and solidly than La Bourdonnais, and admitting: "It is useless fighting against this man; for me he is too strong. He is accurate and faultless, like a machine, whereas I am only a mere mortal..." Later, Anderssen shared a very important observation: "Morphy treats chess with the seriousness and conscientiousness of an artist...For him a game of chess is a sacred duty..."<n>Before Morphy left Paris, a splendid farewell banquet was held in his honor. To the applause of the public, the chairman Saint-Amant crowned with a laurel wreath a marble bust, specially made for the occasion, of the "king of all kings", which became one of the sights of the Cafe de la Regence.<n>Paul was greeted even more triumphantly in New York. An official celebration in his honor took place in a hall seating two thousand, where enormous shields were erected with the names of his defeated opponents. When Morphy appeared, a hymn was played; then the chess king was presented with a gift from the nation - a rosewood table, encrusted with pearl and silver, a chess board with squares of mother-of-pearl and ebony, with gold and silver pieces on cornelian pedestals...He was also presented with a gold clock with diamonds, where the hours
laurel wreath a marble bust, specially made for the occasion, of the "king of all kings", which became one of the sights of the Cafe de la Regence.<n>Paul was greeted even more triumphantly in New York. An official celebration in his honor took place in a hall seating two thousand, where enormous shields were erected with the names of his defeated opponents. When Morphy appeared, a hymn was played; then the chess king was presented with a gift from the nation - a rosewood table, encrusted with pearl and silver, a chess board with squares of mother-of-pearl and ebony, with gold and silver pieces on cornelian pedestals...He was also presented with a gold clock with diamonds, where the hours were indicated by red and black chess pieces. For the first time in chess history, a victory was truly recognized as an event of national importance!<n>What was the secret to Morphy's invincibility? I think that it was a combination of a unique natural talent and brilliant erudition. His play was the next, more mature stage in the development of chess. Morphy had a well-developed "feeling for position", and therefore he can be confidently regarded as the "first swallow" -- the prototype of the strong 20-th century GM.<n>Like Philidor a hundred or so years before him, Morphy was GREATLY ahead of his time. As Euwe put it: "If the distinguishing feature of a genius is that he is far ahead compared with his e
were indicated by red and black chess pieces. For the first time in chess history, a victory was truly recognized as an event of national importance!<n>What was the secret to Morphy's invincibility? I think that it was a combination of a unique natural talent and brilliant erudition. His play was the next, more mature stage in the development of chess. Morphy had a well-developed "feeling for position", and therefore he can be confidently regarded as the "first swallow" -- the prototype of the strong 20-th century GM.<n>Like Philidor a hundred or so years before him, Morphy was GREATLY ahead of his time. As Euwe put it: "If the distinguishing feature of a genius is that he is far ahead compared with his epoch, then Morphy was a chess genius in the complete sense of the word." He spontaneously established the three main principles of opening play: 1) the rapid development of the pieces; 2) the seizure of the center; 3) the opening of lines. To formulate these and other principles of positional play required a furth
poch, then Morphy was a chess genius in the complete sense of the word." He spontaneously established the three main principles of opening play: 1) the rapid development of the pieces; 2) the seizure of the center; 3) the opening of lines. To formulate these and other principles of positional play required a furth
Sooo... this is one of the starting theoretical position of the French Classical Defence (3...Nf6) - (Steinitz Variation)<n><n>In fact a rare case in point in the French, and a great resemblance with many lines of the Sicilian because we have a race for mate with opposite castling. It surely explains why this line is popular among top attacking players like Shirov or Morozevich
For the next two moves White is securing his king's hole
This move came as a relief for me. Had White continued his idea initiated by his last move and played 22.g4! he would have possessed all the trumps for a raging attack on my King.
The threat of 24...Nc3  helped this exchange bringing one passed pawn in the center.
Loses at least one more piece, so White resigned. I was quite lucky to win this. Has my opponent followed up 21.Rg1! with 22.g4, I will have had all the trouble in this game. As the Sicilian, the French is a strategical and sexy defence where one misstep can spell quickly the end for one of both sides.
Black moves his queen to d4.  Black does not seem to be developing many pieces just moving his queen around.  White has 4 pieces developed and black has developed only 2 pieces.
Finally the black queen gets the message and retreats to e7 but not sure for how long.
Black pushes his pawn to a5 and he has a pawn chain from c7 to a5.  In total black has 5 pawns but the king's pawns are useless as they are not joined since the g pawn has now been captured.  White only has 3 pawns and one of these is an isolated pawn at c4.  The other 2 pawns are in front of the king still.
The Bishop is biting on granite.  White has an easy development.
This is undoubtedly a mistake as a waste of time.
Black will often try f7-f5, a counter Stonewall.  Black's pieces are clustered on the Q-side whereas Whites target the poorly defended King.  Black's latest move removed a key defender from the K side.
This opens the dark Bishop's diagonal, with the two Bishops raking the K side.  White doesn't give Black time to play f5.
This move by Black I don't understand.
and my opponent resigned.  This won game is against the highest rated player I've played on GK.  Unfortunately, my other game is not going so well.
[Oh yeah... this is an idea borrowed from Joanne/jstevens1, but if you want to follow GK analysis of this game, here's the link; http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=14707612&rnd=0.3184220970356586 - As a bonus, I'll throw in the second game I had with starforce49, which I lost; http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=14707613&fb=1&rnd=0.3867511537905609]
[This game is also about a week old - real life and some tough games in the 'Traxler with Nxf7' mini-tournament delayed its release]
! an open board favours the more developed side in the opening, so I had no qualms with this move!
Black decides to exchange... though I don't think this was the right move to play - Black is still behind in development! Nf6, Be7 or Bg4 would have been better.
?! Trading pieces in view of a powerful attack is understandable, but I'm not so sure about this move. After White recaptures with his queen, there would be two Black pieces defending d6, and two White pieces attacking it... but since Black's first defender is the queen, that fact doesn't matter. Furthermore, it allows me to keep my queen, which could be useful for an attack on the exposed king.
The best move in this position - not only does it defend the b7 pawn, it also chases away the rook!
...but has he pushed too far? I thought so at first too, when I saw what Black was threatening (15...Ne8! wins the c7 rook) but it didn't take me long to find...
Interesting... usually, it is advisable for the losing side to not exchange pieces like this, but I guess that Black just wanted to get rid of the menace that was the seventh-rank rook!
+4 in material, I should have no problem winning at this point, especially with the tripled passed pawns that I have queenside... but I didn't give my advancement of my pawns justice - I could have done it much better, and later, Black misses a chance to eliminate my passed pawns! How? You'll see... ;)
...so I retreat it
What else does Black have? there isn't even a pawn majority kingside! White, however, has his queenside pawns...
Although I've never encountered a 'Rook vs Queen' endgame, it is my understanding that it's a difficult one to win, especially when the king and rook are close together like this. However, like I've already mentioned my three pawns means that I don't have to deal with this...
With this move, I can force the rook off the board no matter what Black does!
!? -- The Krejcik Gambit, played off of 1. c4, a pet line of mine.
Black is being overly cautious already. Time-tested chess rules of thumb: 1) the only way to refute a gambit is to accept it; 2) refutation demands vigorous play. Bolder is 5. ...d5.
So now White has better development AND more space for his pawn.
This game tells you not to use Queen for protecting more than 1 piece at the same time,<n><n>Let's See :)
Now, I see he will attack using his King pawns, I think this is a mistake
Ohhhhhhhhhhhhh, a huge mistakefrom black, let's see
he lost a knight
Good Game
9. cxd5 - pawn trade.
24. ...... Nd7 - here this steed remains for the rest of the game.  I bet you are all  wondering, how on earth do I avoid losing this one when I am playing effectively a piece down against such a strong Expert?
43. ..... Rf5 - my rook assumes a relatively active position and attacks Ion's isolani on g5.  It feels good when I can combine attack with defense.
44. ..... Rf8 - Ion, you played really well and you did nothing wrong.  I think, though, that I have been threatening to do this to you and Master Freddy for a long, long time but not quite succeeded.  Thankfully I allowed no silly tactics in this game and so I gave you nothing and you had to settle for a Low Draw.  Better luck next time - Joanne.
Scotch defense
After the changes, black begins his attack, since the open centre gives his bishops great power.<n><n>However, black didn't notice the pawn is lost...
white seems to have an advantage in the one side, although most of his  pieces are not there. Black has clearly more power in the other, but his pawns are not at all advanced,
Each one tries to attack in his strong side
Offers exchange of bishops
Rejects, so that the he keeps the pawn advantage in the side, although this adds pressure to f7, and generally the black king's side.
Rook is on the 7nth line, more pressure for the black.
reducing the pressure on the black king side
Things don't seem so relaxing for the black, although the pawns have gone now...
Prefers to exchange the side pawns, so there is no more danger from this side (he has an advantage on the other, even after d5 is gone)
Sicilian defence.  Black creates an asymmetrical position in hopes of getting counterplay on the queenside.
I think this is where we leave the book lines.
Very aggresive, attempting to remove my center pawn and opening the f file for the rook.  It weakens the e8-h5 diagonal, but with my bishop and knight positioned as they are, I don't see a way to take advantage of it.
Trading pieces in the endgame is better for the side with more/passed pawns.
I didn't fear black's passed e pawn, but this gave it to me for free.
So here we are at the start of my game against lougri. I felt like I could conquer the whole world, well, at least every chessplayer on Gameknot, having won my first 7 games on the server (including a mate in 7!). I'm an e4-player, but try to experiment with some openings on gameknot, exploring whether 1d4 might be a good choice in real games.
This was the first moment of happiness in this game for me. I didn't believe that black should place his bishop on this rather inactive square to win the pawn. In fact, I was a little bit happy to sacrifice it.
Threatening b5. I have a choice now to continue the position with a pawn down and activate my pieces (Rac1, Rfd1, b3 and Ne4) or try to regain the pawn immediately with Ne4. I think I made the wrong choice.
I don't really know what I planned on b5, but in the game I didn't like this retreat. It forces me to exchange my active pieces against black less active ones. But at least I'm regaining my pawn.
Judging the finish of the game, it might have been better to exchange the light-squared bishops.
This is my rematch game with Joanne Stevens in the Mason Opening theme tournament.  In my white game, I won in a pawn-up endgame after a fairly long positional struggle in 40-something moves.  Here with black, I won a nice little miniature where the game sharpened early and white got fatally mauled in rather short order.
Standard moves.  Because the early development of the QB in this system weakens the dark squares at home somewhat, ...Qb6 remains a thematic black move to challenge them (as well in similar opening lines of the d4/c4 complex).  Usually white replies with Qb3 and an early queen-trade ensues.  Not to Nosferatu's taste.  Too vegetarian.
!? In my first black game in this tournament, I played 5. ...e6, the boilerplate semi-Tarrasch setup to the London recommended in many sources.  Though I eventually won that game, coaxed by errors on my opponent's part, I struggled to concoct the type of counterplay and double-edged positions I usually thrive in.
Black wins the two bishops, white has her extra pawn and half-open h-file, however the question is posed of where her king shall go, since castling kingside negates the later imbalance, castling queenside may prove hazardous as my fianchettoed bishops points yonder that direction, and remaining in the center...well, I'll let the game speak for itself.
? An ugly capitulation to make.  White had to bite the bullet with 20. Qxc3 fe 21. b5!? for any hope of counterplay in this position, taking advantage of the pawn phalanx on her queenside.
It's not really appetizing to play moves like 23. Rd1, 23. Kd1, or 23. Rh4 in such a position, even if they are the "best" candidates.  White choice ends the struggle at once.
! Crashing through, taking advantage of the knight pin against the c1 rook.  White must play 24. Kd1 (24. Nxe4 Qxc1ch 25. Kf2 (25. Qd1 Qe3ch and mates next move) Qxh1, picking up the other rook), when 24. ...Qg4ch 25. Kc2 (25. Qf3 Be2ch!; 25. Nf3 Re3, with ...Rxf3 to follow) Re2 white is placed in a tortuous bind and her position will eventually collapse. An instructure miniature about the dangers of giving your opponent too many tactical possibilities in exchange for static positional advantages, especially if the position is anything but static! Thanks to Joanne for the game and annotation privileges.
Black attacks with their supperiority, but Kings has no defense
Paun crowns and two queens blasted the Black King
The Black queen has penetrated White's position.
Black has won the exchange plus 2 pawns.
Black's Queen is trapped and Na3 is threatened.
Relatively normal so far.
One can already feel the buildup of the center. At this point I'd say neither side has a true advantage except in the preference of your playing style. Black needs to be careful to not be pushed off the board as well as to consolidate his development. White needs to not over-extend. White needs to pressure with his lead in development otherwise black will become solid in defense
Everything up to this point is played extremely rapidly. We were both in our opening books and even though this is not very common opening, the danger is relatively low. I could be wrong though since I never play against this defense!
21. ... Kxd5 22. Qb3+ Kd4 23. Rfd1+ Ke4 24. Qd3# or 22. ... Ke4 23. Rfe1+ Ke4 24. Qd1#. Two rather pretty mates if you ask me.
I think Bf6 would be slightly better at this point. Black is lost anyway though.
The attack started with just a knight fork (after my blunder that is) between the king and rook. It basically ended in mate. Not all the moves were forced of course, I mean this is blitz and I'm no chess celebrity, but if I took the rook for the knight my attack would have lost momentum and it may have been a battle to finish the game. This ended the game without any risk of counter-attack. If your opponent has to trade the position to keep himself alive, question yourself before taking any available pieces, there may be something stronger lurking...
I don't really know what "partie de plaisir" means... my opponent, pliko, chose the title.  Anyway, all I've got to say about this game (other than what I said in the title) is this: stick around.  There will be fireworks.<n><n>(?!) Grob's attack, also known as the Spike opening.  A very unusual opening, and I had yet to see it personally.  My guess is that White plans to fianchetto the bishop to at g2, and slash at any pawns I try to put up in the center.
At the very least I can gain a lead in development and tempo.  White's bishop has to retreat, and his queen is prone to a discovered attack.
I was tempted to play c5 immediately, but I couldn't see any real way to continue harassing the queen after Qb3.  Nor did I stand to gain my pawn back (9... c5 Qb3 cxd4 exd4 exd4 Nxd4).
Three pieces down... and yet, I've got a forced mate on the next move!  I would have loved to see it played out, but I couldn't contain my enthusiasm, and announced the mate.  (Isn't there a way to add moves to an annotation?)  Anyway, I hope you enjoyed this annotation; please feel free to offer your feedback.  And finally, thanks so much to pliko for being my opponent.  I know it's tough to be on the wrong end of games like these, but let me tell you-- I'd trade a couple wins to get a chance to play in a game like this, regardless of the outcome.
Alternative variation: 20...Kh8
Alternative variation: 24...Bd4+ 25.Kh1 Nf6 26.Bg2 Nh5
the Petrov defense is a favorite of several grandmasters and I myself have used it on several occassions. I do not recommend this defense to players because it loses alot of flexibility in favor of a very commital sort of pawn structure and piece development.
This is fast approaching a more apprpriate Italian Game position. I don't mind the change.
this move is in preparation for Be3 (preparing d4 as in my previous note). However, it is a weakness that Black can target, I should have erred on the side of caution.
In a discussion with my opponent I explained that this capture is not as damageing to my position as some might think. Alekhine has employed this method of opening the position on several occassions.
this move looks weak but it actually is part of the plan to release my pieces against Black's king.
Now the queen comes into danger, Black is a piece down and on his heels, he's lost.
Here is a key position, I should play Qxp and trade quens while goping up a second pawn, but I faulter.
The rest of this game is endgame technique but is worth study by a diligent student.
I am Black in this mini-tournament game
White has a lot of advantages in this middlegame/endgame. He has a strong passed a-pawn, while I have a weak backward e-pawn. White's isolated d-pawn seems to have enough potential defenders. I should be lucky to draw this ending, but I swindled him at the end because of my superior endgame calculation.
White is making a lot of progress on his passed pawn, and his fianchettoed bishop has gotten much stronger since the opening. My fianchettoed bishop has been weakened because of my badly placed d-pawn. My d-pawn would be stronger on d5 supported by e6, but unfortunately pawns cannot move backwards
Exchanging pieces was not good for White. I have better drawing chances now, and because of White's faulty play, I got some hope to maybe win in this ending since I happen to play very well in most endgames.
an interesting game with fred. Almost gave me the first place in the round 1...
and more: i castled, and then saw an opening on our king side.
this definitely loses, but anyanyway the exchanges would have come and let me win this very interesting game.<n>Here, the continuation is Ne2+ and white loses a rook. But on Bh5, which unauthorizes Ne2, there are good continuations following the exchange. I think
Hi everyone - this was an unrated game between me and one of my buddies who has an optimum rating in the high 1600s.  He played very well until his last move, but that last move was fatal and allowed an incursion of Glenda onto the back rank.  My opponent resigned on the grounds of unavoidable mate in 3.  Please note.  I do NOT mind if my opponents wish to resign rather than be checkmated.  Nice just to get the points.  I decide to kick off with d4.
29. ....... Qb6?? - this move allows a fatal incursion of Glenda onto c8.  She moves onto c8 with the greatest of glee.  It is now mate in 3.  My opponent waves the white flag. This leaves the lesson, watch your back rank!
white takes horse....
black responds, but he has two stacked pawns which is not ideal !
black responds before his horse is pinned
white has the horse
white is weakened with this loss, takes the bishop
black accepts the exchange, which is a good policy given a material advantage
white takes the un-guarded pawn
black takes a pawn and attacks whites queen
white takes a pawn to !!! neither side seems to love their pawns !!!!
white has no pieces out to assist her queen
...and again this is what happens. I'm ahead on development, with one piece out, while my opponent has none out.
...and we trade the pieces, but I have actually connected the queenside pawns...
...so I line up the pawn that has lost its protection...
...but my opponent reads this move...
...so I replicate this position a second time...
...and my opponent does likewise to this position...
...but my opponent moves the king to the other side of the pawn...
The KRP advances two spaces...
...and I put him on the attack, to attempt to get in behind the pawns...
...and I move my king, so I don't give away a pawn, or make an enemy one passed...
Black finishes development and hopes apparently to attack on the Kingside.  But the N is hanging.
The N on d6 is a real annoyance for Black.  For one thing, it prevents doubling the Rs on the f file.
With the R on the e file, Black's K can't get to the passed pawn.
The pawn promotes in plenty of time to stop Black's d pawn.
My traditional opening.
I still have a good advantage though. I did tell you this would get interesting right?
It wasn't until he made this move when I realized how incredible this game was all the way to...
THE END! As I said, "Flawed protection!" This game is the perfect example of "It ain't over until it's over!" Think about this: I get a massive early lead, black comes back and not only erases it but builds a big lead himself, but then I find a way to turn things around and bring in checkmate. This incredible, awesome, and exciting game was now over. I hope you enjoyed this annotation and feel free to comment and rate it.
I'm not an expert chess annotator, nor an expert player. Also, this game maybe full of errors from both sides. I will elaborate on the game with whatever it was I was thinking throughout the process of deciding which moves to make.
True; white is far from finishing the development of all its pieces but, as mentioned on a previous move, the purpose of this move, whether sound or not, is to create complications, threatening with and eventual Ng6 or even Nf5, hoping to double Black's pawns on columns d or g...
!? I (white) couldn't resist this move. I'm not sure how sound it is, but it sure resumes complications for Black.
Now, Black has at its disposition the "nasty" discovered check, losing a whole queen in the process...
Overwhelming material advantage after 20...Kd8, 21.Nxg8 Rxg8, 22.Kxh2. <n>I enjoyed this game as this player was rated over 250 points higher than me (at GK rating system, though), and at the time he was second on the tournament and I was 10th.
17... B is definitely better, and probably winning here.  B is a pawn up w/ central pawn majority.  W cannot exploit B's  undeveloped K-side until he unscrambles his own Q-side.
This is my second annotation. This game was interesting and a game I was happy to win. I always like to move my king's pawn two spaces.
The attack is blocked with Nf6. I wasn't expecting a win that easy anyway. Not many people win in four moves.
Nd4 opens an attack on my queen, so I move it quickly.
I really should have taken it with my pawn, but this is more attacking.
Nxc2 lost me my rook, so I needed to regain those lost points.
This however left the pawn to be taken.
So he finally takes my rook. Why did he leave it so late?
The game ends very soon with Re1.
plenty of threats down black's king side but nothing to worry, let's calmly castle
here they come the threat is Bxh6 but the best form of defence is attack.
that exchange suited me nicely.. but I'm still a whole piece down.. at this point I've decided that the game is pretty much lost
Sicilian, Richter-Rauzer Attack, B63/B60
Note that it took Black 22 moves before his rooks were joined.  Capablanca was perhaps the best (along with Morphy) at joining his rooks on the back rank faster than anyone else, especially from the White side, playing all of those Queen's gambit openings...and it was primarily because he, like Morphy, valued the time principle in chess very much.  His writings place great emphasis on time, especially in the endgame.  More on this on move 50.
Time to exchange heavy pieces and transition to a good chance for a winning endgame for White.
Black's queenside rook, as Lasker would say, did no useful work in this game.
Here's a perfect example of what Capablanca was talking about when he repeatedly emphasized the importance of time in the endgame, since Black does not have enough time to stop one of the pawns from queening, and thus resigns.  And yet, even though he placed much emphasis on the element of time, Capa placed his overall emphasis on the element of position. <n><n>He wrote, "The fact is that chess consists of...three elements [material/force, space, and time] plus the inherent element of position, and that position is first, last, and foremost.  Position...is generally valued by the greater or lesser mobility of the pieces, plus the pressure that these pieces may exert against different points of the chessboard, or against certain pieces of the opponent...you may be behind in...material, space, and time, and yet have a winning position...you should give pre-eminence to the element of position" (pp. 66-67).<n><n>Located in "A Primer of Chess" by Jose Capablanca, 1995 ed.
!  White has j ust gotten his piece back, but now he sacrifices it again! This is all theory, of course.
That's it. Opening the columns in of his king should be the key.
Now black has a real edge, despite material is even.
Hi everyone!<n><n>After an ignominious defeat against Ardin (Sonata) in which I dropped 18 rating points I was really chuffed when I got the result of Gameknot Analysis for this game.  Remarkably neither player made so much as an innaccuracy - a game with such a strong Expert and no errors - whew!  How on earth did this happen?  Well, first of all, read the following analysis     http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=15713503&fb=1&rnd=0.48895922418947063 then read on ....
23. Rxd1 - it looks good for white, a WR on the d column, but now comes the puncture!
I'm not good in openings and go for instinct rather than the book ' this time i chose the king side.
this move i didn't understand why i made it, his queen was ok there not on the battlefield
taking bait, an exchange of queens would have led the game into overtime
Scotch Opening
No blink with this move !
This was the last game in the Tournament, and Herr von Bardeleben has to win the game if he wanted to be amongst the prize winners.  he adopted, therefore, an opening which is but little analysed and allows of complications.
Black has by far the best of the end game; his rook is able to take possession of the open file and the f3-pawn is very weak.
Having conducted the whole end game with great skill and accuracy, herr von Bardeleben reaps now the benefit of his superior strategy.   White has to give a piece for the passed pawn.
I'm trying to play with a single lost pawn here.
A pin most unwanted costs white a queen, but with attack on it's back too.
Getting a pawn and destroying the pawn structure, and the defense.
Biggest blunder in the match, unfixable too, ...Ka8 would play longer, and possibly win too.
A new opening for me: the Caro-Kann Defense.
I had no knoledgde of the ideas behind the opening, so for all the first part of the game I was just winging it. (excusing the bad pun)
brining all his pieces over to the king side. My opponent wanted to get an attack started.
so we come out of it and black has two knights for a rook and a pawn. blacks h pawn will be hard to defend and the king is a little open but for the most part blacks position is looking pretty fine.
So lets take another look at the position, black has two knights for a rook and two pawns. so I am down in material by one point, furthermore my opponent has a clear path on the kingside. so perhaps white has a slightly easier time, however the game is far from decided yet. My position looks solid and I should be able to drum up some counterplay somewhere.
Maybe I should have looked for play on the queenside, there is nothing too wrong with this however.
up untill now I had avoided making this move since white playing a5 would put the pawn on the colour of my own bishop. However it also workd the other way and would make my pawn a target for white. With this the blockade is nearly complete.
Luckily I have enough time.
Kf6 would have held on for a while longer, but in the end it would still be game over.
Van't Krujis opening.
Black opens it anyway.
Here Qb4+ is advised.  This in addition protects e1, so if black keeps the king on the e file Re1 pins the black queen.
Black has set up a Stonewall Dutch, while White has fianchettoed both bishops.  Usually the fianchetto is trustworthy against the Dutch.
White tries to exchange off some of the attackers.  Black has more space, however, and better pieces.
This wasn't necessary, but it works too.
The passed pawn on the h-file wins easily.  Black has three passers and White cannot stop them all.  If Black makes the mistake of advancing his King too far, White's c pawn can sneak through.
Karpov completes his queenside development with a slight advantage.
But this is only an illusion. Because of this pawn move, 9...Ne4?? is no good, because of 10. b4 and white wins 2 pawns.
I don't know, why did Spassky retreat his queen?
Karpov takes advantage of the black queen's departure to forcefully give Black the isolated queen pawn. Because his pieces are somewhat passive, the IQP turns out to be a liability rather than an asset.
This is better than 14...Nxd5 because after 15. Nxd5 exd5, a pair of knights has been traded. The side with the IQP should avoid trading minor pieces; the side playing against the IQP should seek trades of minor pieces.
Karpov prepares to load his heavy pieces on the weak pawn.
The Alekhine's gun on the d-file has Black tied down to its defense, but Karpov will need to open a new front to win the game. The usual way to win a pawn, e3-e4, does not work at the moment because d7 is protected 4 times. But the passivity of Black's pieces will ensure that Karpov will have the advantage when he finds a new plan.
Do not hurry when your opponent is tied down.
Now Karpov prepares the end of the game.
Hello everybody!!! I'm annotating this game bacause i liked it very much...It was from a tournament i'm still playing! So it started with e4.
That seems logical...I actually never played this variation before, expept playing it in blitz games...
He's protecting his queen for sure!
And he accepted the exchange of pieces...
That was his second big mistake..I really don't have any problem to exchange our queens, plus i would be up two pieces...
And checkmate with my bishop that during the whole game was sleeping piecefully....That was the game! I hope you like it!!!! Wait for your comments and your rating and please if it's something to ask write it down or sent me a message....I also have to notice in my game that i did not play 0-0 in the whole game, something that is rare for me playing as black...Thanks for reading my annotation...
All the games start from this position, with White to move. I had never done a Nimzo-Indian theme before this tournament,  but know it's a very popular defense.
My opponent, likewise, castles before plunging towards the middle game.
Black has but one move...
...and this is it.
It's the first time I play this opening....but I like it!
....Black is lost.
This game was part of a Caro-Kann thematic mini, in which I wanted to practise the Bayonet Attack. This is one game where I succeeded in breaking through.
I wasn't sure about this move. It solves the immediate problem, but is too quiet, blocks the black queen from b6 or a5, and also weakens c6.
A useful move, but I'm not sure black really has time for it here.
King's pawn opening and Sicilian Defense.  All constructive comments are welcome and encouraged.  I am always looking for ways to improve my game.
At this point white's pieces are fully developed, and even though black only has to develop his queen, his pieces appear cramped.
The Deferred Steinitz variation
White's position clearly looks preferable here and so an exchange of Queen's would only help Black's position
This move gives White the option of exchanging the Queen for two Rooks.  Giving that Black's bishop would be pinned and White's two knights are well placed to join an attack, it is an option I take
Black resigns as he can no longer defend the e7 square.  For example, if 22. ... Qb6 then 23. Ne7+ Kh8 and 24. Rxf8#.  However, there is also 22. ...Qf6 but 23. Nd7 is winning for White
the fly in the ointment which gives white a winning game.
a tough endgame now ensues.  Black has his work cut out for him to win this one.
an unexpected and very good move.
this results in a position in which black will win the "c" pawn but only have his "h" pawn left and will have to win the "h" pawn and advance it down carefully to win.
This game features an interesting positional battle in the modern French Classical.  I'm not an e4 player and I haven't played 1...e6 since discovering the Sicilian, however, I can't resist playing in a French tournament.  The positions are always interesting, with plenty of play for both sides.  As usual, I won't annotate the basic opening moves, which should be common knowledge.
This seems like a good place to start the annotation.  Instead of 5. f4 leading to the Steinitz, this move betokens the modern treatment of the Classical.  The idea is for White to create a "super-center" with c3, f4, and Nf3.  In these positions, the standard break at ...f6 is not so good as it leaves Black with a terminally weakened pawn structure.  This is a fact which determines this game, even though we leave book very early.  Anand has played this several times with great effect.  For some truly amazing games, check out Anand-Shirov, 2000 and Anand-Morozevich, 2000.
White comes out of the opening with a clear static advantage.
Probably a wise choice, Black is seeking piece activity (a dynamic imbalance) to offset his space and pawn structure disadvantage (a static imbalance).
I thought about Nde4, however, this move gives me some initiative.  Notice how Black does not have this luxury on move 17, as his Queen is not off the back rank and cannot challenge the f-file after 17...Rxf1; 18. Rxf1, with the initiative and maintaining the static plusses in the position.
Black doesn't have any pieces to harass my king.
Here Black resigned as he had enough.  Thanks to my opponent.
At this juncture white does not have to play e4 but instead can play 7.g3 with very interesting play for both sides. The advantage of 7. g3 is that white steers the game into more positional style of play. However, the meekness of 7. g3 should not be underestimated! AS it is notorious for it's complex middle game
This move and ...Ne8 are black's latest attempt to refute white's Bf4 ideas.
attacking c3 and forcing black's next few moves. <n>Alternative variation: 23. Rxb7 [?] 23... Bc8 24. Bxf6+ Kxf6 25. e5+ Kg7 26. Rc7 Bxe5 [=]
Black is down by two pawns and is in danger of losing. However,  black can force the game to a peaceful end if he adheres to the golden rules of rook endgames. #1 Centralize your king #2 control the center. #3 Keep your rook active and cut off the opponent king from meeting up with a pawn. #3 You need at least two pawn advantage to win.
Black resigns. Both of his pieces are unable to move and are in zugwig
Not the smartest move. I don't know why Black did this.
I don't remember why I did this.
Moving my pawn forward to try and promote it. (When I made this move, I remember thinking that the rightmost side of the board is the least congested and it has the rook to protect it, so this pawn might be able to make it all the way across.)
Black takes my pawn
Black takes my pawn. Battle of the rooks ensues.
Black takes the bishop
Black takes the bait.
Black takes the knight
A move I used to pull a while ago, but learnt it is ineffective.
To a good place. If black is not careful, checkmate is near.
Probably the best move, saving the rook, but both queens are lost if taken.
Trapping the king in and losing the game. Thanks bentonator for a good game. There were a few sloppy moves from each side, but we're learning and getting better (hopefully!).
Ironic though it was that, in the opening, I gave my opponent attacking potential while doubling up her pawns, I ended up fixing her pawn structure for the sake of taking material off the board. This move also closed up the b file and saved my doubled b pawns from a future rook attack, so it was indeed necessary.
My two passed pawns become the focus of the board.
Winning this epic game landed me a 4th place finish out of 44 in the tournament. I could not have asked for a better result, since, if I won in the 3rd round, I probably would have lost the next two. My rating from this tournament went up 281 points, more than anyone else who competed in the reserve section. In doing so well, I realized my true chess potential, and as a result I became more active within in my club and with chess in general. Final Score: 4-1 or 4.0/5.0. Thanks for watching!
A solid starting move. This controls the center and prepares for an early attack. In my experience, I have difficulty attacking the opponent.
This is my counter to 1.d4. This opposes the adjacent pawn and takes control of the center. This move also helps me develop my pieces.
This is not a common move. This readies up for 3.c4.
This enters the game into the Queen's Gambit. My center control is being pressured.
And so the game progressed. I won his bishop later with b2 and he resigned.
Here he resigned. In the game, there were examples of bad ideas of attacking and how to manipulate the opponents mistakes.
Another lost game...
The Knight is lost, so
black try to continue the development. However, Nf6 would have been better.
I have thought a lot about this move and the only excuse is that black tried to defend the knidht, so that in case of an exchange, the pawn structure isn't broke. however, with Nc7 in the air, it is the worst move of the game
Black lost on time. But the game is even:<n>If 51...,Rh8, 52.Ra8=
Was hoping for 5...exd4 6.Nxd4 Nxd4 7. Qxd4 which would leave me, in my opinion, with plenty of control of the center, better developed and full of tactical promise. But alas, Janshad had other plans...
Basically I developed during the last two moves while my opponent was trying to play defense allowing me way too much space and initiative.
...And Black resigned. The lesson I took out of this game was my simple advantage in initiative and space magnified my opponents small oversights into something impossible to overcome. Hope you enjoyed!
(dieselengine9) e3: It releases the w/s bishop for castling. g3 is the book move, but f@ck a<n> k/s finchetto when playing a high rated 7th degree asshat. It's a prayer to be checkmated<n> in such a situation.
(dieselengine9) O-O: I castle. My pieces are all protected and my opponent has not <n>reached out to attack yet. It's great knowing what Dave thinks, though I feel when <n>he has one of his "fits" and puts THAT in the comment box it's going to be even MORE <n>disturbing than a usual game on his lunatic fringe.<n>(graderguy) I'm gonna show him "lunatic"......
(dieselengine9) cxd5: I thought of resigning. This f**ker I'm playing has three pieces pointing<n> towards d5. With his B pawn advanced I can't bypass the attack of his freshly pushed D pawn.<n> If I screw up, he's going to frickin kill me with his w/s Bishop. All seems lost at this point for <n>black. Instead, I opted for cxd5, trading pawns and possibly a piece or two. This is going to give<n> him ridiculous position. I should know better than to play this sandbagging grandmaster.
(graderguy) dxe4: Well, it's what I wanted, so let's see how it rolls from here. <n>Obviously the Knight will be moving, but thankfully, not many safe havens for him near my king. <n>The tension is broken, as they say, and now the middle game commences. <n>I am looking at e1 or e5 for his knight to land on. <n>In my opinion e1 would be a sissy move, and if Landon makes it, he needs help......
(dieselengine9) Ba5: it saves my pawn for the moment. Hopefully I'll think of something<n> brilliant for the next move.
(dieselengine9) Qb3: have to protect my pawn and rook. This will also keep things even<n>  if dxe3, and gets my queen out of the revealed attack from his rook.<n><n>(graderguy): and apparently he did not see the beautiful position this allows him if I attempt <n>a pawn exchange @ e3, he would have rook, bishop and queen all pointing at <n>f7. what an asshat!
(dieselengine9) rd1. this will stave off dxe3 for a minute. I'm expecting rd8 in return.<n> i don't know what I'll do next.
bxd7: takes the rook. I can see a lot of interesting possibilities for Dave's next move, <n>but feeling he will bxd7 I conditional my next move.
Comment: (graderguy) BxB: I'll complete the "trade" and hope for better days.
(graderguy) f6: I have to protect against the mate in one. This attacks the Rook, <n>and might gain me a little time and space. Rc4 looks promising for later.
Bc2: this blocks the rook and protects the pawn form the queen. Contemplating <n>moving the rook along the c file somewhere...  have to see what this asstard does next..
(dieselengine9) Rc5: I'm honestly lost, and it looks pretty hopeless for stopping that pawn <n>promotion. I'll resign before I give this asshat that much satisfaction, but for now I'm going <n>to try to get him to trade his last rook.
(dieselengine9) Rxc2! <n>yeah, I added the !, I added it in respect to everything and everyone that is good, <n>everything and everyone that is right...in otherwords...everything ANTIgraderguy. <n>f*** that D pawn, thats what I say. f*** graderguy and every D pawn he'll ever have.<n> This puts us back even in material, but it really takes the wind out of graderbitche's sails.<n> That's worth 3 or 4 points at least.<n>(editor) I don't think he meant for all the asterisks to show up in his comment, I think <n>he was trying to say something about my "famous" d- pawn and my "fabulous" play.<n>I even did some minor grammatical corrections, but he'll never notice...
(graderguy) Rd2: This pins his f pawn to the king and will allow a check if he takes my f pawn.<n> It might also lose me the game. if only I knew what diesel was thinking! I see him <n>having a wonderful mating opportunity if he can get his queen on f5 and check with the <n>queen on the back rank.
(dieselengine9) Rxf5: trades his f pawn for my useless e pawn
(graderguy) Rd5:OK, we'll try an attack from _this_ side of the board.
(graderguy) qb5: hoping to trade queens and win the b pawn. Maybe.
i started queen side attack. but this opened a potential discovered attack. when a pawn is moved what opportunity it gives to th opponent. my rook at a8 is at potential discovered attack by his LSB at f3. so when he moves his central pawn it becomes a discovered attack. i didnt notice this at all. i failed my game just because of 2 factors. 1. his strong pawn at centre. 2 a potential discovered attack by moving his pawn when he could.
i didnt think much while playing why he moved this pawn. but he did that for a purpose. his plan was to threaten my queen by his DSB at f4. such a good opponent i am playing with. my best move here is to defend it with DSB to e5. i didnt see his plan at all. so definitely i didnt defend it.
he moved his DSB to e3 with a purpose. a good move. can u see it?
a big blunder. i should have tried to block his pawn from advancing. so i lost the game.
Black wins a pawn with a discovered attack on the N.
Black is now two pawns to the good.  Black's d-pawn is backward and a target, but White's B is not a very good piece right now.
It's to Black's advantage to trade.
This mistake is fatal.  White's K is now trapped against the edge of the board.
White resigned in view of the unstoppable Rh7# coming next.
The reti opening
Transposes to the Queen pawn's game.
Black has equalized.
Black is ahead in development.
Usually trades help the defender,but not in this situation.
A blunder that throws away the win.fortunately my opponent doesn't see it.
don't know if this is right
and black resigned, thank you for reading this annotate
Owen Defense.
White has no respect for black's ability, shooting for the four move checkmate, and bringing the queen into the fray so early in the game.
the complexity is of this central position
this when the game gets confusing and i start to make mistakes
Queen's Pawn, Mason Variation.
Philidor's Defense.An interesting chioce by this expert because you don't see it too often, but I've been working with variations of this for years. The immediate problem for Black is the f8 bishop.
I considered Bb3 but giving him this weakness without compensation or development this early can't be passed up. An immediate king-side attack is necessary now.<n>In Bernstein vs Tartakover,1937, Black had a similar idea but developed his pieces a bit more and planned it out: e4...e5,Nf3...d6,d4...Nf6,PxP...NxP,Bc4...Be6,BxB...PxB,Qe2...d4,Qb5?...Nc6!,Nd4...Qd7, QxNP?...Bb4+!<n>It's all over in a few more moves with a double rook sacrifice by Black and an unstoppable mate threat.
With a weakened king side and poor developement, Black tries a counter-attack.
Attacking two pieces but..Qh4!
Now with all the pieces on good squares, and the Black king and Queen at risk, it's time to move in.
With three pieces more or less out of play, Black can't defend this position for long.
6.Bd3 is also a viable development move here.
Q-side castling and in line with the Austrian Attack's premises.
With hindsight, an error, but it is admittedly hard to recommend a viable alternative for Black. f6 allows  ........
MINEFIELD #4: ... Bg4 attacks a piece of greater value, putting the game on a knife's edge as 19.Rxd6 gxf4! gives the following unsatisfactory White play: (a) 20.Rxc6 Rd1# Mate!! and (b) 20.Bxc5 f3+! 21.Rxh6 Kxh6, 22.Be3+ Kg7 23.Rxc6 fxg2 and Black equalizes + no material advantage for White, justifying the power of Black's dangerous ...Bh6 earlier in the game.
Black defends f7 and has the sly idea [MINEFIELD #6] to exchange his f8 rook and gain some upper hand thus:--  23.Nf7+ Rxf7, 24.Bxf7 Rf8 and despite White being a pawn up, the position is quite drawish with no clear win in sight for White.
Black comes down the h file with pawn to h6.  Black may be preparing for on his attack on the king side.
Alternate variation : 18...fxg6 19.Rxe6+ Kf7 20.cxd5 Qg5+ (20...cxd5 is fruitless since 21.hxg6+ Kxe6 22.Re1+ Ne5 [else 22...Kf6 23.Nh4!... With the checkmate threat of Qf5#] 23.Rxe5+ Kd7 24.Qb5+ Kc8 25.Re8...) Continuing : 21.f4 Qxh5 22.Ne3 Nf6 (threatening 23.g4...) 23.Re5 Qh4 24.Bxf8 Rgxf8 25.dxc6... With a non-defendable attack from White.
Threats of 20.Nxf8... And 20.Bxb4... Are looming large.
4...not so crazy about the trade...the Caro-K is kind of passive-y, but a little imbalance is to black's advantage.  Retreating the bishop and allowing the trade on g6 is not bad...Fischer always said the doubled pawn formation was almost impossible to attack...sometimes the open h file comes in handy.<n><n>7...Why trade the good black-squared B for White's bad one?...also the trade hands W a tempo...how will black ever get counterplay...he is already behind in development and opening the game will help W, not black.<n><n>8. I might have played N x d2...looking at c5 which is where B's break and counterplay will come...clamping down on the Q-side will reduce B to a waiting game<n><n>11. W has space, and no weaknesses, and better development...this is already a struggle for B<n><n>12. the g4 push  creates an ugly hole on f4 for W, if B could sink a knight  in there, then he can stop W's K-side attacking possibilities. B will have to be careful to guard the h file, maybe playing g5, K up, then bringing the R and Q back to oppose W's buildup there.
22. Now W threatens a rook lift to h3, in a move or two...how is B going to counter this...not so easy to see how.  B's pawn at e6 impedes his K-side defense, and W owns the g5...d8 small diagonal...so B's defensive options are meager
23...too slow....need to weather the K-side attack before thinking about counterplay
This was an interesting game, but it started with this common move.
im dnoe with this pawn moving game, lets get this thing started.  I was thinking about creating a skewer with Qb3.  possibly getting his knight and rook for a bishop...
i wrangled him... and now im thinking 'how do i end this thing mercifully?'  the end game has been my struggle of late.
ooo... move it, kingy!
finally ended the bishops game.  I imagine him staring in the face of my queen, all the time watching this happen to his king.  Sad.
thats it!  nice game...
3... Qe7 is a lesser accepted variation. The queen move to e7 is also seen in the Keene variation. According to my book, "As in the Keene variation, here too Black's concept appears non-trivial."
Attacking the vulnerable queen-side, but Black lags in development. the pawns on c6 and f6 deprive the Knight's of their squares whereas the awkward queen placement and pawn on d7 lock in the bishops.
?? Game losing move which opens Black up to mate in six. 20... Qe6 21. Bxe6 Bxe6 22. Ng5 Kd7 23. Nxe6 d5 24. Rxf6 Rae8 25. Rf7  Kc8 26. Rxh7 Rxh7 27. Qxh7 Score 15.44 Depth 13 Nodes 132M<n><n>1-0.
Hi all! This is the first game from a very exciting league match that I'll be annotating. This game starts with the King's Gambit and develops quickly into a big, powerful attack. Enjoy!
Also possible is 4...g4!? but I prefer to begin my development.
For an opening in which White sacrifices a pawn for extra space, his position sure is cramped. He needs to expand on the queenside, but the placement of his Knight and Bishop are preventing the freeing pawn moves he needs.
The now-isolated h-pawn and the backward f-pawn are Black's new targets. The next several moves are designed to lock White's pieces in the corner where they'll be least effective. Watch how each move forces White's replies; pulling the Rook away from the center and removing the defense of d4 for a powerful check from the DSB.
0-1. This move dashes White's hopes of play along the diagonal--the desired Qb2 is no longer playable, since 28.Qb2?? Re1+! is a simple mate in three. White sees that he has no further prospects--Black is *also* threatening 28...Qh1+ 29.Kf2 Re2+ 30.Kg3 Qh4# There's no adequate defense, and White resigns. Many thanks to mandinko for the great game, and thank you all for reading!
Hi everyone!<n><n>This is the first of two games when I get into a reasonable position with a Master and an Expert and then I end up overplaying my hand.  In this game, Dave apparently walks into a knight fork, but he then showed me that things are not always what they seem.  Dave hit me with an even bigger stinger from the Wicked Witch of the West.  How does this happen?  Well, it is a case of looking at the Gameknot Analysis http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=17205702&fb=1&rnd=0.547893998411963 and the commentary below.  The game starts with the Reti Opening which provides a lot of flexibility to white.
2. ..... Nc6 - this game has transposed into a Symmetrical English.  I now decided to develop a piece and prepare e5, of which I play next move.
15. Qe2!! - now two of my pieces are en prise.  As a little exercise, can you see which two?  Remember LPDO!
This game was perhaps not the most exciting from an artistic point of view, but there was a lot of tension and fighting spirit. The quality of play was higher than in most of my games, with no side making any serious mistake.
5.c4, heading for a Maroczy bind is also an interesting try. White has good practical results with that approach.
The bishop is a little exposed on this diagonal, but it prevents black's d5 push for the moment. For instance, 7.Be2 0-0 8.0-0 d5! is unpleasant for white.
To counter the threat of Ng4, white had to play either f3 or h3. Entering the Yugoslav attack with 9.f3 is probably the most critical, but it can be very painful to play white, at least in a game with less time on your clock. I used to think this h3 move was a good practical choice, but after some games, including this one, I've changed my mind. Now I believe the Maroczy bind is a better practical choice against the accelerated dragon if you want to avoid the complications of the Yugoslav attack.
Black has found a very nice way of opening up the a8-h1 diagonal.
At first it looked like black would win brilliantly with 45...Rg7 46.Qxd8  Kh7, but white has the resource 47.Nd5! Bxd5 48.Qxd5!! with an unclear position.
Fortunately this opens up for a check on h5.
watch this.
see?
ok, at this point he forfeits, so this is just how I imagine the game would've gone.
a good game, but it was just me assuming what they would do. I probably made some mistakes along the way for this person's moves after 26, but it was obvious I was going to win this game
I'm not sure why i did this, it is not right in the Sicilian for black to take control of the center.
I don't see what this does.
Wen i saw this move, i knew it was a draw.
At the time that Kotronias wrote his book, this line had fallen out of favour, with players like Short preferring 4. Nf3 and 5. Be2.  However, Kotronias found new life in the old line.  I've found his strategy to be very attractive as White, using it exclusively against the Caro-Kann.  My losses have usually resulted from over-stretching myself and playing too loosely but I've had some satisfying wins.
?!  This is mainly the result of me mis-remembering the line (which is just the first game in Kotronias's book).  Looking quickly through the book, I can only find a few examples of Ng3 being played early by White and none of them are in similar positions to this.  The objective is to prevent Black from playing ...Be4, disturbing White's KR.  However, it does invite Black to disturb White's pawn structure.  Better was an immediate 7. h4, when, if Black plays 7...Be4, White can play 8. Rh3 followed by Ng3 to chase off the bishop.
I usually refrain from swapping off these bishops until I have to (or it's too late!)  However, on this occasion, I felt that it was a good gain of tempi to swap off a B that has made one move for one in which Black has invested 3 already.  The swap would also develop my Q to a good square.
At last Black plays this freeing move but it's too little too late.
! White improves his stranglehold.  It's not clear, though, how White is going to convert pressure into victory.  That N on g3 is immobilised by the pawn structure.  In the post-mortem, in a similar position, we looked at improving its position with Nh1-f2-g4.  However, I have recent experience of similar complacent knight manoeuvres and getting punished for them.
This knight retreat defends c5 but it suggests another line of attack for White.
Before playing this move Black must have been waiting for the fianchetto development of White's LSB, which moves that piece's line of sight off of c4. However, Black might have been better served to play it sooner.
Black's c-pawn was pinned before this move, and remains pinned after.
Blockading the passed pawn.
Finally, the threats on the c-pawn become too much for Black, who is forced to advance it, creating a passed pawn for White.
With his knight maneuver, Black has the White d-pawn overmatched--it is attacked three times and only defended twice. But Black absolutely cannot yet take the pawn on account of 26. Qe8+, which would win at least the knight. So he clears room for his king.
I don't like these openings. I am not comfortable with this opening.
My method for chess at the moment is to try to get as many pieces as I can. This may not work so well in higher chess matches, but it tends to work decently in the lower leagues. This move is an attempt to save my pawn, if he chooses to take it.
I've seen this used many times, and I thought I'd give it a try. This makes it hard for bishops (mostly) and other pieces to get close to the main part of my "fleet".
I saw this one coming.
I don't like falling behind with pieces in chess matches. This made me very upset at myself.
I wanted to be on the offensive. I wanted vengence in the form of chess pieces...
I don't understand this. He appeared to have seen my tactic before, but now he seems oblivous to the fact I can still take it down. Perhaps he didn't see my move before, or wasn't paying attention this time around?
I am a player for pieces. Pawns count too.
This is a tough spot. I have no pieces able to threaten the queen.
I did a poor job preparing for this.
I have him again. I've used this tactic many times throughout the game, sometimes failing and other times succeeding. My opponent is very inconsistent.
He made the best decision given the time. A pawn is a gain.
This was the form of check I was not expecting. I suppose I should have been more prepared for this move. This puts the rook out of the black bishop's danger.
Thinking back on it, was this the correct time to move his king, or should he try attempt a last chance attempt on my king?
Checkmate. My opponent was good at times, but he was inconsistent in his defenses. I will have to play him again this mini tournament, and I know what moves I'll be maing. Please tell me your opinions on the game, and better moves to make in the future. Thanks for your help.
Opening the f file
As Black I prefer Petrov to Ruy Lopez and it is one of the main lines I play.
I considered d5 to see if White would let me post my knight up the board, but opted for this play to trade my knight for a bishop.  Long term I think d5 was a better play, but I don't think I lose much by doing this trade.  If possible I'd rather not have an open board and face off against two bishops.
White finishes his development.
As it is no longer protected, time to strike while the iron is hot.  Now Black has three connected passed pawns.  If White cannot disrupt that pawn chain, any one of those pawns will get traded for a piece down the road.
... no choice really -p doomed
This is the Chigorin Defense
My move here according to book is 4. cxe5 and it makes a great deal of sense to me but I was unaware of the standard continuation and the game is into the unknown for me now.
I'm not sure about this move. It does push my Queen back and locks up my pawns but I felt it weakened Black's middle. Perhaps I'm incorrect.
Black has a slight developmental advantage now but has lost the light squared Bishop
Generally in the Queen's Gambit Declined it is best not to take this pawn before White moves the Bishop to d3. I gain back my Tempo lost by retreating the Queen and develop a piece into a strong position now that Black's only central pawn is pushed forward
I'm feeling pretty good at this point with good development and up an Exchange
Now it is I who has a choice of what to do. I make the best move here.
Although not one of Fritz's top two choices, it is not a bad move to see how white will respond before trading bishops or castling. Plus, I don't absolutely have to trade bishops, although not doing so on my next turn may end up costing me a tempo.
This comes too late. Perhaps white is subtly letting me know he saw this after he moved, and decided he'd do it anyways. But now Black has no issues defending one of various ways.
And now it is black with a slight advantage according to Fritz.
But instead of Re1, or other moves Fritz happened to like, white thinks to add his own pressure, but it's not real. The knight can still be pinned if but for a minute. And here I begin to see some interesting possibilities involving a queen sacrifice by me. I don't expect my opponent to miss it, but it will further complicate the board, and so I think, why not? Usually in Blitz I don't do that, because it's too easy to miss stuff. And of course, more accurate would be a6, leading to the eventual loss of the white d pawn, or worse for white. But it's Blitz, I don't think of that during this game, occupied with thoughts of creating interesting possibilities with discovered check on the white king. So instead...
White just saw me let him capture my queen. Fritz thinks best play results in a mostly even game here! This is because there are a LOT of complications and tactics in this position. I so love it. I really don't care if I lose here; it's the fun of chess that I enjoy, and usually I don't get into this kind of fun position. With best play by both sides, white comes out with a bit less than a pawn advantage... well for as far ahead as Fritzs sees in only a few minutes. But since this was a Blitz game, and I laid this 'trap' if you will a while back, I'm hoping white does not see that he must block the c file, or lose the game. White needs to do that with his queen or bishop of course; either way the white queen must be 'given back'.
With the escape square covered, and two pieces delivering check, the king cannot escape. Although this game was filled with several minor errors, it was still fun to create a complicated position, and play it inasmuch as it was. Here's hoping you enjoyed the sharp positions!
he opens up the black bishop for some reason,  the king side seems real srtong and I have no pieces developed.
I don't see any advantage to stacking more pawns, so I try to go for a swap to get the pressure off my weak side
I ahve no choice but a5
i know have a bit of freedom with my queen....
I now have a couple of pawns on my d4 for support and have remove the attack on my weak side.    I think.........
he takes instead....  this is a great chance for me to unstack my pawns.....
he loads up the middle,  I count the pieces......
he pushes it toward the middle, but I didn't think of that ,  it limits his knights mobility which has been suffering the whole game. (move 12)<n>I looke at this a while, focusing on the knight rook and king fork if I take c4...I think about putting presssure on c4  either with my  queen or ra4....
This "robert_a1777" had already beaten me in a close game just before this one, and now he's got me in what I judge an already slightly inferior position, only 16 moves in! ...This crap is ticking me off, folks. ;-)
has to move. White has advantage in terms of space.
Surprise - This black bishop can become quite strong on this diagonal. Also it is a black king defender
opening f-file for the rook
White is 1 piece down, so no trading queens at this stage! instead white attacks the c7 pawn AND prepares the discovered check (pawn d6) AND still attacking the black queen
this is reasonable
11. Kg2 - The dentist played this move and then realised horror of horrors that he was about to be Freddied by the move Qf2#!  He then resigned the game on the grounds of unavoidable mate - I think he is yet unaware that Freddy expressly forbids resignation on the grounds of unavoidable mate and frowns upon any resignation whatsoever.  After this, The Dentist bravely challenges Master Freddy to another game, I will soon be annotating about how he fares in Game 2 - well, he loses but he does put up stronger resistance next time round - watch this space.
I continue my attack on your Queen so you don't have the time to defend against other threats.
Kings pawn opening.
(Forgive me, this was a real-time game and I accidentally closed out the window after I copied it down, so I lost my opponents name. Anywho, the game)<n>King's Pawn Opening, standard stuff.
The Dragon Variation, my favorite cut-throat variation.
!? This is a less played move here, as white usually plays either Bc4 or O-O-O. However this is a very playable line, as it often turns out to be very positional and dare I say, drawish. Now I didn't play the Sicilian Dragon variation to look for a draw, and seeing as this was a fun game I decided to try out a newish and controversial move in this line
? Had white seen the following move he would have simply realized he dropped a piece and continued playing, but now the game is done
!! One of the great points of this piece sacrifice is the knight on g4 now supports the bishop possibly coming to this diagonal, and in this case it does so in a convincing fashion. With the queen pinned, my win is virtually inevitable.
?? The game is lost anyway, but this simply leads to mate in two
Here my opponent resigned, as after 22) Nd1 (the only legal move) either 22)...Qxd1# or 22)...Rxd1 is checkmate.
For example. I really hope I get more experience in this line, as this seems like a decent surprise tactic when I really want a good game. Sacrificing on g4 will surely wake White up and force him to play accurately, or he will perish very quickly. I hope you enjoyed the annotation, thanks for viewing!
One of my students challenged me to a game. Although the game is a bit one-sided, there is a nice finish to the game. See if you can spot it! Black is a beginner, and doesn't make the best first move
Larsen's opening, also called Queen's fianchetto opening. The idea is to prepare for a fianchetto of the queen's bishop which will attack throught the long diagonal b2-f6, This was the first time I've encountered such a strange opening.
Good move, This attemps to win a rook fo a minor piece!
White is helpless now and the mate is soo, it just a matter of How to execute it!
Opening the h file for my rook!
This game is very instructional. We must follow the basic guidelines of chess to win.
This hinders black's development slightly as c6 was a good place for his knight.
Now his d pawn is isolated. A good pawn to attack.
? This drops a pawn. The game is clearly won.
Nc5 will certainly be a thorn in white's side if he cannot get rid of the knight. So far so good though as white has a lead in development.
Expected. Kingside development is good too though.
At this point, black timed out. It was a good game though. Thanks for watching.
Against this I'm at a total loss, so I improvise. Sometimes I try to fianchetto the lsb in b7, but it is not really a confortable game. So I tried something different.
This seems to be just too much. I know I'll have problems to develop my queenside, but it's ok, provided white's game cannot break in.
Ah, this is the interesting part. Now, I cannot retreat the queen but in e2, and this will be annoying, so...
If Nh4, g6, and after the exchange, play for defending the 2 pawn's chain. Affordable, but this is better for me.
I think and I was actually planning on Queen takes pawn
The queens exchange works in black favor thanks to the favorable material and positional advantage
4. h4 is I think objectively better here.   This move gives black the option of the fun Muzio Gambit (4. ... g4 5. O-O PxN 6. QxP), or of simply consolidating his position, as my opponent did here.
Gameknot analysis gives this as the first blunder of the game; instead, black should have re-taken, when best is 19. NxP QxN 20. BxP, when white is a piece for pawn down, but at least has some counter-play opportunities; a sharp game should ensue.
?   23. Bf6+ Kf8 24. Qc1! is the best way to continue; the gameknot line ends with white up a queen and two pieces for a rook!   It's an interesting line - 24. ... RxP (to give the king a flight square) 25. Qh6+ Ke8 26. BxB Bf5 (for both sides, the pawn on h7 is more valuable than the exchange (BxR)) 27. BxR BxP 28. QxB Ne3 29. Re1 NxP (a desperate attempt to get counterplay by opening up the white king's position, I assume) 30. Qh8+ Ke7 31. Bd6+! KxB (PxB isn't possible as it's double check) 32. Qf6 Qe6 33. RxQ+ PxR 34. KxN.
With the simple threat of BxP, and black's position is holdable.
The "key" of this opening. If something takes my Knight, I take with the pawn. While it seems to make my bishop useless, it provides me with a strong "disturbing element" that allows me to attack the kingside. In fact, the best strategy for black is to castle queenside.
Now, it's just a matter of time.
The game is over...
black emerged from the opening having equalized the game, a symmetrical structure, less space, but a better light squared bishop, after some exchanges black was able to make a pawn break and convert in to an endgame with R+3P vs B+N, with two passed pawns and a pawn majority on the opposed wing white had trouble coordinating his pieces in defence of all threats so finally black achieved a win in a well played game
?! it turns black's job easier...
and I get three pawns and the rook for my two minor pieces
"Passed pawns must be pushed"! Black sets his main asset in motion.
The text-move works in the game, but in view of the resource pointed out in the following note, it should have led to nothing. Keres instead recommends 40 ... Ne6! which forces 41. Nf2 (else 41. ... Ng5 wins the e-pawn) and now 41 ... Nf4! maintains great pressure.
White's knight raid has somewhat disrupted Black's piece formation, but has not changed the essentials of the position. Black re-establishes his pieces in a secure central arrangement, and his h-pawn is ready to advance further.
This is the decisive mistake. As the note to move 53 shows, the white knight is useful on f4, because it prevents the black king coming to e5, in view of the fork Ng6+. White should therefore retain this resource and instead play Dvoretsky's recommendation 55. Kc3! when it is not clear if Black can win. He can retain some pressure with 55. ... Kc5 (55 ... Ng6 56. Nxg6 h3 57. Nh4 h2 58. Nf5+ Ke5 59. Ng3 Kf4 60. Nh1 Kxe4 61. Kd2 is drawn) 56. Ne6+ Kb6 57. Nf4 Ng6! (such deflecting sacrifices are a typical idea in knight endings) 58. Nh3 (58. Nxg6? h3 and the knight cannot get back to stop the pawn) 58 ... Kc5  Dvoretsky), but it is still not 100% clear if this is enough. Extending this line, a sample variation is 59. b3 axb3 60.Kxb3 Ne5 (after 60 .. .Kd4 61. Kb4 Kxe4 62 Kxb5 the white a-pawn is too dangerous) 61. Ng5 Nc4 62. Ne6+ Kb6 (62 ... Kd6 63. Ng5 is no help, since 63 ...Ke5 runs into 64 Nf3+) 63. Ng5 Ka5 64. a4 Nd2+ 65 Kc2 Nxe4 (the last chance) 66 Nxe4 Kxa4 67 Ng5 Ka3 68 Kbl and the ending is a draw. There may be improvements in this line, but it is certainly clear that White has excellent drawing chances, whereas after the text, he is lost.
57 ... Ne5+ 58 Kc3 would not get anywhere; now 57 ... Ne5+ is a real threat.
Now Black trades his a-pawn for the enemy e-pawn, and, more importantly, wins the white knight. In this last phase, we see the helplessness of a knight in trying to defend against a RP. The proximity of the edge of the board means that the knight has too little room for manoeuvre.
The Two Knights variation of the Caro-Kann
This move takes White out of the book.
Black sacrifices a pawn, but in return, he has trapped both White's King and Queen.
I open with Grob's Attack, one of my favorite openigs. It leads to a complicated, tactical game.
Black does not cooperate, and the Queens remain. If I could have induced the exchange, I would have played for an end-game.
With the Pawn position on the King-side, I deem it safer to put my King on the opposite flank.
Black feels differently. He places his King in a somewhat vulnerable position. However, I haven't worked up much of an attack.
Now that the Kings have taken their residence, Black begins a Queen-side assault.
Now I win the minor exchange. Next goal: remove the heavy artillery.
This seals it. The Pawn position is locked and neither side can break through. If Black's King retreats with 38...Kd6, I follow with 39 Bxd7 Kxd7 40 Kf1 Ke6 41 Kg2 Ke5 42 Kf1 Kf4 43 Kf2 with the Opposition.
This is most likely, black's most snarly move this promises to be a very spirited affair.
when black plays an early ...Nf6 I try to aim for the Keres attack with f3 and g4.
The Sicilian Najdorf with ...Qb6. This is not Black's most optimistic move. Far more testing is 6. ...e5 which takes advantage white some what slow 6. f3. However, this line can not be all that bad since
an attempt to win the exchange on d5 if black is squeamish about exchanging on d5.
black has not else good
again when all else is equal play a move that limits your opponents options. For example I can not prevent black from playing Be6. However, with the queen on f4 the Bishop has to stay on e6 and the f-rook has to stay at home. Plus Black also has to be very careful of any attacks on the g-file.
now the gameknot post game engine says this is equal but these types of position always fool engines. But I will make things clear
White has added superior pawn structure and central dominance to his space advantage. This is more than enough for the win.
black is so tied down that any move will let white walk right in the door.
entombing the black king in a chamber of light squares. Now for those who are reading this from our club I wrote a thread on successful pawn breaks against the castled king. In that thread I posted a diagram of a basic position of where black had played the f-pawn. In this basic pattern the key to a successful attack is controlling the a2-g8 diagonal. And guess who controls it.
for the win!
Opening with d4, I wanted to start the game with either QG or Queen's pawn game, but it quickly developed into the Benoni defense.
Black declines the trade, and I bring my a1 rook into the game.
Instead of taking black's pawn, I have decided black's rook is becoming to big of a problem, as next move would have been Qg4#, and the game would have been over.  I don't have much of a choice.
I happily trade rooks, and black's queen looks exposed to me from this angle.  With a little support from my queen, I could possibly place my rook on g1 pinning black's queen.  However, black is too cunning for that kind of amateur move.
Black saw the pin, but now I have won a pawn and position.
It was a good idea for black to move his rook to e7.  He foresaw white's pawn on d7, and wanted to be on the correct side of the action.  However, this check is forcing black's queen into a very tight position.
I considered Ne8, but this leaves me with a greater advantage.  If black chooses to trade pieces, I will promote my pawn and checkmate black.
One of black's only mistakes in the game.  I have pinned black's rook, and now it is not looking good for black.
Not sure of his rationale for this one, appears out of character for him..
But fortunately I hesitated long enough to see the mate! Despite the forced opening I'm very proud of this one. I managed to curb my natural instincts and play to Barons weaknesses. I suspect now however I'm in for a hammering next time ;-)
Hi everyone!<n><n>Here is another game in GM Cyrano's MT where I have been playing against the big boys, this time a Master with a rating close to IM level.  I end up in a position where I have a rook against 2 pieces.  Boy those two pieces proved to be much more lethal than a rook.  In fact, all black's remaining pieces swarmed around Henry who, sadly, got stung and suffered an anaphylactic shock.  So how did this happen.  Well before I start, here is the gameknot analysis: http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=17836549&rnd=0.9027691620956812
3. ..... exd5 - exchange variation.
17. ...... Kxf7 - so, after a tactical melee over the last few moves we have a position of R and P v 2 pieces.  My position does not look too bad at the mo - but ..... a few moves down the line .....
This reserves the right to play Bxa6 while building up pressure.
He resigned as he has to give up his queen to my two knights.
For the attack!
All my minor pieces are in the hunt
Messing with his g pawn.
There are times I love this game.
The Black Knight eyes f4, an important battleground in this game.
Black is all about the king side attack. I have no real plan yet, just trying to pick up small advantages. At this point I own an open file and have two knights in a position with a closed center. I have a bad light bishop I'd love to exchange.
The a pawn requires constant attention, and black's minor pieces are out of the action. But what's the action?
Hmmm..the annotation seems to be following a variation here and not the real game. 52.c6 leads to problems as you'll see following the next few moves. in the actual game, i played 52.Ne1, offering to sacrifice my N. Black wisely avoided the sacrifice because then his N would have been too far away to catch up to my advancing c pawn. Instead, black sent his N back to the center, but I advanced my a pawn and he had to resume his attack on my g pawn which did eventually give him two connected passed pawns but I queened and got back to defend just in time.
but playing with Queen?<n>i wasnt expecting that
using Queen in early stage gives me advantage of improving my weapons
and lost the rook
that is the worse choice and ends the game
I was searching drunken_rabbit's past game and I noticed this beatiful game and decided to annotate it.
D00 Blackmar Diemer Gambit. This might be called the true Queen's Gambit - the Blackmar-Diemer. Like what the name of the game says
Bishop takes a2 black is ahead two pawns in material and the pressure on white's king is increased.
Look how beatiful this game ends.
My favourite opening. The orangutan. Uncommon and very unusual. Few players use this opening.
Black defends nicely.
Nott one of the players that I have played this opening against have come back with this sequence of moves.
Standard development.
And now he's lost it.
At this point black resigned. His knight is trapped and it is one of his few developed pieces. It seems that he thought it was a pivotal piece and he couldn't afford to lose it.
By playing 4...Nf6, Wollner avoids some of the terrifying tactics of the Danish proper. At the time, this was considered a fully viable mode of defense. Wollner, perhaps understandably, was reluctant to grab that final pawn. Today, theory claims that Black can wend his way to equality by giving back the material in a tactical counter-trick, as follows: 4...cxb2 5.Bxb2 d5 The first pawn is given back. 6.Bxd5 Nf6 7.Bxf7+ And now, the second. But hasn't Black gone too far -- isn't he dropping his Queen here? 7...Kxf7 8.Qxd8 Bb4+ The counter-trap: Black regains his material. 9.Qd2 Bxd2+ 10.Nxd2. "Theory" judges this position to be equal. That may be true, but it's worth pointing out that the position is also very sharp, with substantial pawn majorities for each side. Some correspondence players have recently resurrected this variation as a winning attempt for White. It demands accurate defensive play from Black, because White's pawns advancing on the Kingside "bite" faster, thanks to Black's exposed Knight and King. In this side line, there's one other move also worth considering. When Black plays ... Nf6, White need not liquidate but can instead play for central domination by accenting his development: 7.Nc3 Nxd5 8.Nxd5 One of the many interesting points in this line is that Black cannot force an exchange of Queens here, thanks to a very clever tactical shot: 8...c6 ... apparently forcing the Knight to move, but -- 9.Nf6+ White pulls Black's pieces forcibly into a fork! 9...gxf6 10.Qxd8+ Kxd8 11.Bxf6+ ... and when the dust clears, White is the exchange ahead
p, with substantial pawn majorities for each side. Some correspondence players have recently resurrected this variation as a winning attempt for White. It demands accurate defensive play from Black, because White's pawns advancing on the Kingside "bite" faster, thanks to Black's exposed Knight and King. In this side line, there's one other move also worth considering. When Black plays ... Nf6, White need not liquidate but can instead play for central domination by accenting his development: 7.Nc3 Nxd5 8.Nxd5 One of the many interesting points in this line is that Black cannot force an exchange of Queens here, thanks to a very clever tactical shot: 8...c6 ... apparently forcing the Knight to move, but -- 9.Nf6+ White pulls Black's pieces forcibly into a fork! 9...gxf6 10.Qxd8+ Kxd8 11.Bxf6+ ... and when the dust clears, White is the exchange ahead. That is the tactical rationale behind White's interesting winning attempt with Nc3. I have much more analysis of this in my secret notebooks!
. That is the tactical rationale behind White's interesting winning attempt with Nc3. I have much more analysis of this in my secret notebooks!
I hope some one later gave Wollner financial compensation for playing this move, because we are all in his debt!
Rules are made to be broken -- not often, but on just those occasions when genius rises to the occasion! Charousek has no intention of giving up his perfectly good Bishop for the Rook on f7. Instead, he has spied a fascinating feature of the position. We saw that by delaying the development of his Queen's Knight, Black has reserved the possibility of Nbd7 defending f6. But Charousek has seen -- and brilliantly exposes -- the dark side of Black's delayed development. <n><n>The following combination is made possible because Black's Queen is undefended!<n>DO YOU SEE HOW??
Now the point of the sacrifice is becoming clearer. Charousek is not simply attacking the Rook: he has also used the P/e6 to cut off the defense of Black's Knight on the light diagonal from c8 to g4. In a sense, this is a very sophisticated double attack. Wollner is no fool: he realizes his position is desperate. So he immediately plays for the counterattack.
No points for subtlety, but full marks for bravery.
Wollner finally develops his Knight, lending his Rook's defensive aid to the beleaguered e8 square. But Charousek has realized something tremendous about this position. His Rook, sitting at f1, is on the same file as the enemy King. "Yes," you say, "but what of it? I often get my Rook on the same file as the enemy King -- but my own pawn blocks the file, so what's the use?" Youth and genius do not lose heart for such trifles. Charousek now sacrifices, not one, but two Queens to achieve the ultimate opening of all remaining lines!
One of the finest sacrificial conclusions on record. Not often does one get to sacrifice two Queens to force checkmate before move 20! Talk about efficient piece deployment!! It doesn't get better than this! Years later, Kester Svendsen wrote a wonderful short story entitled "Last Round," about an old master who has tried for 50 years to create a work of art, the perfect game. In the crucial final round of a World Championship tournament, he trails the mighty Russian Rolavsky by half a point, and they are paired. Svendsen weaves his story around this as their game. "I have always a slight feeling of pity for the man who has no knowledge of chess, just as I would pity the man who has remained ignorant of love. Chess, like love, like music, has the power to make men happy."-- Siegbert Tarrasch.
did not see this coming
decided to put pressure on with the minor pieces before saving the rook
Hi everyone!<n><n>I have my own version of events as to what happened at the Battle of Naseby which occurred on the 14th of June 1645.  The Royalists were headed by King Charles 1 (my opponent's name is Charles btw) and his cousin Rupert of the Rhine - they were called the Cavaliers - on the opposite side were the Roundheads headed by Oliver Cromwell.  In my story I am going to use some artistic licence of the conversations on the battlefield.  King Charles takes the field with his troops - he and his men are armed in white - his missus, the staunch Roman Catholic, Henrietta Maria has been practising sorcery along with her faith.  Therefore she is known to the Roundheads as the Wicked Witch of the West.  Now Oliver Cromwell was far too busy with administrative paperwork in London and setting Government Targets so he enlisted others to do his dirty work.  Henry Thomas Fairfax and his wife Glenda (who has also dabbled in Sorcery) have drawn the short straw.  They have been provided with two castles, two horsies to ride on, two clergy, Frenchmen by the name of Fou Lenoir and Fou Leblanc and eight footmen - I am one of those footmen, I am the a pawn.  I end up 3 squares shy of promotion to a queen but that is as far as I get.   All of Cromwell's Army are armed in black. King Charles and Queen Henrietta have also been prov
the Roundheads as the Wicked Witch of the West.  Now Oliver Cromwell was far too busy with administrative paperwork in London and setting Government Targets so he enlisted others to do his dirty work.  Henry Thomas Fairfax and his wife Glenda (who has also dabbled in Sorcery) have drawn the short straw.  They have been provided with two castles, two horsies to ride on, two clergy, Frenchmen by the name of Fou Lenoir and Fou Leblanc and eight footmen - I am one of those footmen, I am the a pawn.  I end up 3 squares shy of promotion to a queen but that is as far as I get.   All of Cromwell's Army are armed in black. King Charles and Queen Henrietta have also been provided with two castles, two horses to ride on and two unnamed clergy and eight footmen. Henry and Glenda have now arrived at the south side of the battlefield at Naseby and will head due north to fight King' Charles Army.  The first white pikeman (a pawn) makes his move to Sector e4.
ided with two castles, two horses to ride on and two unnamed clergy and eight footmen. Henry and Glenda have now arrived at the south side of the battlefield at Naseby and will head due north to fight King' Charles Army.  The first white pikeman (a pawn) makes his move to Sector e4.
6. ....... b5 - Gareth, what are we fighting for here?  Goodness me, Joanne you have led a very sheltered life in your mannor house with Glenda!  Don't you realise just how much Income Tax, VAT and Council Tax we have had to pay recently?  I will tell you, King Charles has doubled it - this has got to stop, Joanne, this has got to stop!  Now, I must advance to Sector b5.
16. cxd4 - now neither side has a horse.
26. Bxc1 - now one pair of castles from each side have also bitten the dust.
Philidor's Defense. C41
Morphy takes anyway.
Bam!!! the last two pieces in Morphy's camp give mate!!!<n><n>This is one of my favorite games, My heart quickens whenever I play vs a philidore that I may repeat this game.
Bobby Fischer said 1.e4 was "best by test" but is it really? According to the GK world database 1. Na3 has a 54% winning percentage and Black has not won a game!<n><n>so I had this tournament begun with 1. Na3 instead,Black would never win. There's some food for thought ;)<n><n>ok back to the game...
?!!? White spices it up. You dare to attack my Queen? I'll take it. Most of the time this logic does not work but here it certainly makes it interesting
This is where the pawn on c6 changes the identity of the game.<n><n>In the last 2 annotation projects,Black has had the luxury of playing 8...Kc6 which is considered to be the best move. However,Black is now unable to move his king to c6.
It works. I wanted Black to play this move all along. But why would I ask to be invited to a tournament with an attacking opening only to chicken out into a perpetual. Sure it would be my first master draw but why make it so hollow?
developing the minor piece,only thinking of the attack later
better is 19.Nxd7 now Black takes control of the game
Black still has to be careful 23...Qxe5?? 24. Bf4 would be disasterous for Black
Gotta love king pawn opening, it opens up two positional promotion routes for the queen and bishop.
Knight promotion to d5 results in a long term structural problem for black.
Queen withdraws, maintaining attack on e4, but with the pawn on e6 this is a non event threat, if black's next move was pawn to f5 it would change the tempo of the game. It would cause the re-direction of effort from aiming at the A side to aiming at the more vulnerable H side, kings weak side.
I don't see the point of this move.... It doesn't allow for new lines of attack or threaten me to require a response. This in context with the ability to castle king side means minimal effect
1. Nf3 is an interesting alternative to the conventional opening moves. Called the Reti opening, named after Mr Richard Reti.<n>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R%C3%A9ti_Opening
Now 0-0 is the natural move to play. After the game I looked up this position on the Gameknot databases. 9...0-0 is the only move on it. However, I had my idea, so I went with it.
Normal development.
This was played with the idea of meeting b2-b4 with Ng6 and b4-b5 with Nc6-e7.
He told me afterwards that the idea of this was that he could play b2-b4-b5 without the fear of me playing d5-d4 and Ne7-d5-c3. At the time I was pleased to see this move, I didn't think it achieved much.
He takes back.
This can be a good way of slowing down this sort of attack that I have going, but in this position, it just leads to defeat.
He takes back.
OK stop - what is white main threat in this position?
This fails to meet the threat, but I think black is lost anyway. OK find White's next move?
Did you get it dear reader? The only way now for white to avoid Qxg2 mate is Ne1, which loses queen on d1. So White resigned.<n>Many thanks for reading. Please rate this annotation, and leave a comment or two! Until next time dear reader!
After an interesting skirmish in the middle game featuring some inaccuracies on both sides, this game wound down to a R+N v R ending. In researching the internet, I found that the stronger side can rarely win, but that the best move for both sides is sometimes far from obvious. So, of course, I was anxious to feed this into the GK analyzer (the only computer program I have available) to see if it could find better moves in the ending.
The computer doesn't much like this, and I agree. It gives Qa4 with a slight advantage for White.
This seemed wrong to me at the time, but it's actually quite good. It virtually ensures that White will eventually win Black's h pawn.
After playing quite quickly for a number of moves, White suddenly paused before playing this move. Perhaps he did not see that the rook is poisoned?
The computer likes Ng4 better, but in the line it gives Black eliminates the pawn anyway and achieves a draw.
With this White calls it a day and offers a draw.
The british grandmaster John Nunn is 51 years of age, but in the next game against the 21 year old dutch grandmaster Jan Smeets, he shows he can still play...Taken from the fourth round of the NH Chess tournament played at Hotel Krasnapolsky in the heart of Amsterdam.
According to Nunn, he was trying to play the opening 'safe' in this tournament. This explains the chosen setup, wich actually gives white only small chances at getting the advantage.
sicilian defense.
sicilian defense  Najdorf variation.
Black rids himself of double pawns.
cxd5 cxd5 and black does not win a piece.
White tries to gain a tempo for his kingside attack.
In my opinion white has an advantage here despite the pawn deficit.
?? And he fails to see it.
Book.
Book.
Picking up an extra pawn, and keeps the queen lurking near the king. My instinct would be to trade queens and force a winning endgame, however black hopes for a checkmate before the endgame.
Winning the exchange, but leaving his king very vulnerable, black won't mind losing the exchange as he now has good winning chances.
Unable to block the threat white grabs the material, however it looks very bad for white even if he survives the coming attack black has passed pawns on the e and h files, so white will certainly lose an endgame.
Black plays the combination on the second chance
building up minor pieces
takes paWN
keep on getting minor pieces ready
checkmate i lost.  what did I do wrong this game??????
I believe this is the weakest possible opening.  There is a two move checkmate that begins this way.
So far white has developed his position well.
think of Nc3 then taking back queen and having a good game for black but sure he refuse it :)
declining the kings gambit. i usually accept but in this game i wanted to experiment!!well the experiment was a failure!!
not accurate. In my opinion 7..Bd7 was the right move. If White takes the pawn on b7 the black can develop with 8..Nc6 and get a much better play than in this game!! By trying to save the material i lost the positional fight all together!
I made sure my black squared bishop was past the d-pawn before I advanced it. This is pretty basic, but ti's important nonetheless.
Trading a knight for no reason? I don't see any advantage to this. That was before I noticed it exposed my king if i captured it with my pawn. however, that could be easily copensated.
I didn't even think about Qxf6. I have a habit of playing too fast.
Captured a pawn while forking the queen and rook. A big error for my opponent
I now no longer have my most mobile piece (which could be bad in the opening), but he lost one of his most powerful pieces in the process, so I'm a little less than 2 pawns ahead.
The treat of the pawn is hidden if it even exists. I don't understand why he's weakening his g-file.
4. e3  We are both headed out of all the main lines of the King's Indian now.  Nothing of the Classical, Four Pawns', Petrosian, Fianchetto, Saemisch, or Panno variations.  This is a temporarily very closed variation called the East Indian.  Good name, as it has a slightly mysterious, almost mystical (call it a kind of quantum energy) field!  You won't see any of the conventional center pawn play here.  That means there can arise a very sudden flank attack at any moment for either side.  In this case, Black starts it first.
8. Na4.  In this position, I have seen no alternatives except for 8. b4 and 8. Ng5.  Na4 has the potential to kick up a lot of harassment by White on the Queen side.  But I was already beginning to think about a flank attack on the other side.
9...Bg4.  The two flank attacks are already forming, one on the Queen side for White, and one on the King side for Black.
goes with the motif of the opening, black will try to use the open c file to attack. in this sense blacks opening is more attacking since he already have a half open file to mount the rook and the queen.
a pawn in 6th rank is very powerful, whenever I have a safe chance to put one I jump for it :)
ok. I did see this move. hoped he wouldn't so should have expected it. i think this is to win d5. don't think it is to attack knight as it is guarded by queen. I suppose there is a threat of the fork with queen and rook but i don't see a threat yet. probably mainly an attack e7 and c7 restricting my movement and blocking my pawn movement too. (git)
stop pawn progressing. tempt him into taking then i'll take with bishop. This will help remove the threat of an attack down this side
just positioning here for an attack down h line.
attacking b5 pawn preparing his attack down this side. I cant see too much danger here.....
i'll back it up i think
The Sicilian Dragon is one of my favorite weapons as Black, as it has a reputation for being one of the sharpest of openings. A moment's slip for Black can allow a quick win for White...
Opening up the a1-h8 diagonal should have lost on the spot for Black, but I did not see it. In any event, it is obviously bad; opening up lines for White is the last thing Black wants here!
After the game, Shredder showed me what I missed: 24.Qd4  would have given me a winning advantage. 24...f6 would lead to 25.hxg5, and 24...Ng7 to 25.h6.
Black side is attacking because of the advantages of the pieces as well as the position.
Black side done the task ! Poor Kapila lost this time...
3. e4 - this is the Blackmar-Diemer Gambit.  In conjunction with the database, Freddy kindly gave me a link to a Blackmar mini-tournament called Kylion's BGD mini-tournament #2.  Here is the link for any Blackmar fans! http://gameknot.com/mt.pl?id=22062.
9. ......... Nbd7 - development.
14. Rad1 - Freddy centralises his QR and the pressure is on - look how aggressive his pieces are.  I decide to exchange knights but this does not ease the pressure.
Scandinavian Defense.
...and this move is not in the database.  Black prevails just over half the time with dxe4.
I think Bf5 would have been a better choice.  White would be scrambling to defend against checkmate had black not offered this rook trade.<n><n>35. Rg6, Bd6
modern defense 1
modern defense 2
i m not used with this. So let's see what happens if i take d4 ...
i'm missing developpement, but we can see that after, rembering the good advice "when play black, prioritize security !" (does somebody rember who is this advice ??)
i fell so sad, it doesnt work ! and i'm now missing a paw and he is going to push the center and surely try to have a advanced paw, this happen very often whith good oponents
i still dont realize it, but this knight is a very good move that will make me surprisely win this game
yes ! this is the wining move ! the queen has to move, but where ?
third ! i'm know +2 and it is not finished ...
Hi, here a blitz game. I've got black and this is the Sicilian defense.
Not very enterprising. Most of the time d4 is played or Nc3.
Qa5+ then Qxc5 could have been a solution to prevent the exchange of the queens. But I would have lost a lot of tempo.
Now white have a big advantage but he has everything to prove. Without the queens, the game turns into slow maneuvers like some variations of the berlin defense in the ruy. In this position, white have some tempo and black must quickly defend his position. The threats will come fast. I don't think that this opening is any good for black finally.
5. f4 - this move has advantages and disadvantages.  It's strengths are twofold.  This pawn controls e5 and g5 and is also used to break up a fianchettoed position.  This pawn moves early on in the opening in The Bird's Opening, The Pirc Defense - Austrian Attack, The Robatsch Defense and the Sicilian Dragon/Naijdorf as well as the King's Indian 4 pawn attack.  Ok. White has an impressive pawn centre, but it can be punctured.  The drawback of the f pawn moving, however, is that it opens up the Fool's Mate Diagonal - e1-h4.  Here is how a 1650+ player came a cropper against The Dentist on that diagonal:-  http://gameknot.com/annotation.pl/fools-paradise?gm=15408.  That diagonal can be exploited in the opening.  Another diagonal that black can take advantage of is the g1-b8 diagonal after white has castled short by means of his queen or dark squared bishop.  In this case I do castle short and Ion does take advantage of this with his dsb as you will see.
9. cxd5 - pawn trade.
35. b3 - this pawn takes evasive action but alas, he is not long for this world either.
I win. Checkmate is unavoidable.
I was thinking 3 Q-R5 ch, but I wasn't the one playing the game.
Don't queen trade when your down, but my trap worked he didn't see my bishop guarding the queen
This game was part of a mini-tournament, "Derman's sicilian  XXI". Not surprisingly if you know the name, this was the starting position.  The idea of the Sicilian is that White gets a developmental lead and tries  to attack in the centre or on the kingside, while Black seeks counterplay  on the queenside and the c-file (which is usually opened soon).
If your opponent has his queen out, always watch out  for this kind of things. A queen can cause a lot of damage, as happens in the  game.
? 22...Rxe4 would have postponed the end a little bit. Now the White  queen can show her power for the last time in this game.
And with some smart manoeuvering she also wins the rook. Actually the  checkmate would be delivered faster without taking the rook, and of course the  queen plays an important part in that line again: 24...Kd7 25.Qd6+ Ke8  26.Qe6+ Kf8 27.Bxh6#. Unfortunately for Her Majesty, Black resigned and ended her  pleasure. Still she was very proud of this game. She had taken two bishops, a  knight and two pawns and helped her teammates to take the enemy queen. Thanks for  reading this annotation and I hope you enjoyed it. I did enjoy playing this  game, but next time I'll show you a more exciting gone.
Good defense. A not so smart move like f5 would end in Ng5 and black is in a world of hurt if not mated...
This is exactly what I had prepared against when playing Qh4. Her best defense would have been Re7... anyone see a 5 move combination?
this is very bad judgement on white's part handing black the bishop pair vs. his two knights.
a good try at defense.
Defends the pawn while developing a piece.
Not a good move. Black has moved his knight twice in the opening, which wastes a tempo, and he is ignoring my threat of d4, which will give me a tempo. Gaining tempi are very important in open games like this.
Nh7 is better, but it is still completely losing. Perhaps it was better that my opponent lost quickly by playing Ng8 instead of suffering longer in a hopeless position with Nh7.
Queen's Pawn is my favored opening with white
Hoping to win a pawn with 11. Nxb5 Nxa2+ but not seeing the continuation I think
The Caro-Kann is my favourite defense to the king-pawn opening.
Black is behind in development.
Black's backward f-pawn has become a target.
Black forgot about the pin, but this doesn't cost him any material. Eventually, this costs him the game.
I am starting annotating this game as it is a very tactical and interesting game. <n><n>I have looked through countless variations, many leading to checkmate and others to much material gain, but overall this game was very enlightening to me. Showing the power of inititaive and piece placement over pure material.
!? The Perreux variation of the 2 knights. The other option is 5. 0-0 when after 5. Nxe4 6. Re1 6. d5 7. Bxd5 7. Qxd5 8. Nc3 White will regain his piece with an attack.
This move is playable if black is careful, but 5. Ne5 leads to the main line of the Perreux variation where white has a very small advantage.
? Now Black transposes back into an unfavorable variation of the Lolli attack.
The main difference in this and the fried liver is the opening of the e-file, allowing white to use his rook early in the attack.
? Not a good move. Better is Ke8 when white has an advantage, but the text move is very bad.
!! Ok. If I had not looked at this line before the game I would have never come up with this move. <n><n>The point is after dxc3, both the e and d files are open and black cannot defend eventually against the numerous mate threats. Looking at this position is a very good exercise for tactics!
A sign Black has messed up in the opening. Black has to concede a piece and leaves white materially equal and with a devastating position and attack.
I have calculated a lot in this position and I believe this position is winning for white. It really is a great position to study from with all the tactics against the black king. I was ready for basically everything Black could have played. I spent a lot of time looking av variations, some probable and others not so probable, but it really was a great game to refine my tactical skills.
I calculated this variation and found it to be quite favorable for white, not forced mate but very favorable. This variation tempted me into calculating these variations, when instead If I had looked harder I could have found the very pretty forced mate a move earlier. Note the interesting theme of not taking material. In fact 14. Kxe7?? loses the game after 15. Bg5+ and the King will get mated on the open board with the two bishops and Queen. Note also 14. Nxa1?? 15. Qd5+! and if 15. Kxe7 then white mates with the similar pattern as before, and if Black moves 15. Ke8 trying to hide behind the white knight then white wins with 16. Nxc8 and the mate with the two bishops is unavoidable. <n><n>Thus the strongest move in this position is the very odd 14. c6! attempting to run away from the white attack through c7. I calculated this variation beforehand also, and found that not winning material is the best option (such as Qf5+ forking the knight and king). Instead the best move is the interesting 15. Bf4! stopping black from running away. Again in all the variations where black gobbles material he finds that his king is quickly mated in the middle by the two well placed bishops and Queen that slice into the Black position. This position really is so pretty to me, White having superb development and a strong attack and is willing to sacrifice the material lead for the pretty mates with the two bishops and queen.
The two bishops and Queen brutally rip apart the Black position. The game is not over yet although it is forced mate. I wanted to annotate the game as soon as possible so all the variations were still in my head, sorry if my opponent sees this. <n><n>A great tactical game. Both of us missed a stunning knight sacrifice leading to forced mate, but I was able to get out of the opening with a strong material and positional lead which enabled me to sacrifice my material back for a winning attack. A very interesting game that had me laughing at all the funny ways white could win, I suggest people to check out other possible Black replies I did not show in the game and see the amazing replies white has.
So black takes
The main line is 8. Bb5 here, but this is the line I play.   It involves a pawn sac - usually temporary - for a bit of play.   8. Bb5 I think is safer, but more drawish.
So black takes
Maybe slightly ahead of time - I think black usually transposes the 11th and 10th as played in this game.   This move holds the pawn, but gives black light-squared weaknesses, which a bishop or queen on b3 can try take advantage of.
A terrible blunder from black.   However, I return the favour.   How does white win?
Not by this anyway!   I don't know why I played this over the obvious Rfc1 (Rac1 is good too).   This just gives black time to get out of trouble.   Instead, 15. Rfc1 and black can't stop 16. Nb5, trapping the queen.   15. Rfc1 is + 6.5; this is just level.
Black chops with relief!
Black takes
And this is about my only retreat square.   But I don't actually have to retreat.   19. BxN! PxB (QxQ 20. Bc7+ and I've just won a piece) 20. QxP gives compensation for the pawn.   If 20. ... QxN 21. Qc7 Qd5 22. RxP+ QxR 23. QxR+ Qc8 24. Qb6+ and a draw by repetition.   23. ... Ka7 would be a terrible blunder and after 24. Rd1, black can resign!
Black gives his bishop a route to the game
And black takes now.   I'm three pawns down - and Fritz scores it -0.3.   The compensation?   Lots of open files towards the black king.
This is the wrong open file though.   22. Qc4 is the move here, with an attack.
This has to be wrong - and is.   Black nabs a fourth pawn, and gives me a fourth open file to play on.   Again, 24. Qc4 is the reply
I play this though.   I'd like to think in an OTB game, I'd have played some moves differently!
Not quite how the knight on b6 usually ends up undermined in this opening!   With the queen on a2 (see note to the 24th move), this move wouldn't be possible and white would just be lost
His best hope, but it ruins his pawn structure and opens his kingside to attack.
Don't worry, the f4-pawn is in the bag. But with 11. d6, white pretty much stops black's development cold.
Black has a way of trapping his bishops. He no doubt hopes for 13. exf6, Qxf6, protecting the f-pawn.
And so, the f-pawn never does get taken, because white's next move is the last move of the game.
Even though White has an outside passed Pawn, Black wins because of superior King position.
This is one of the more interesting games I have played here at Gameknot.  It starts from a quiet, double-king pawn opening and becomes a double-edged game with attacking possibilities for both sides.  Most of the action is created when we castle on opposite sides, leading to a bit of a race to the king.  Enjoy!
I play a variation of the four knights game with the bishop on g2.  I've had a lot of success with it here.
This to me is a crucial move.  With the kings on opposite sides, the potential for full-scale onslaughts on both sides of the board emerges.  This game turns into a race; however, with my development, I'm ahead already.  Also, notice that my g2 bishop is potentially a very good piece if I can open the center.
Defending my b-pawn, and preparing a pawn storm on the queen side.
Beginning the attack with a gain of time.
I believe that my opponent moved here to try and bring his knight back into the defense; however, this move is probably the worst blunder of the game.  Better is Qd7 followed by Rdg8, trying to spring the king.  With this move, however, my attack is able to come full force.
Chessmaster has a forced mate in 6 right here: 24. Qc6 h4 25. Ra7 hxg3  26. Kxg3 Nb8 27. Qb7  Kd7 28. Qxc7  Ke8 29. Qxe7#<n><n>I didn't see it, and for it to have played out in the real game, I would have had to sac my queen, which I wasn't confident enough to do.  How I finished it off was interesting as well, however.
Forced to take the rook and lose the queen, and he still has mate problems.  The game was definitely over at this point.  Black resigns.<n><n>This was a fun game to play and to analyze.  I hope you enjoyed sharing it with me.
Now I spent a long time here looking on sacrificing my rook on g6 and h7, but they don't quite work, so instead I played...
and he finally starts his counter play. Again I looked at the sacrifices on g6 and h7. At the time I didn't think they worked, and then a move or two later, when it was too late, I realised they did! See http://gameknot.com/chess-puzzle.pl?pz=33318
This is a BBB : bloody black blunder
Vienna game
Preparing development of bishop.
??? Locks in most of his pieces
Finishes it off.<n><n>Hope you enjoyed it
This is an short, 25 moves game, but hope you will find this game interesting.
game over. Funny thing on the end is: madcapsb accused me after this game for using chess programme. I can understand the frustration of loosing with an minus 300 elo player, but his own mistake in 23th move is more than clear. The conclusion is - David can beat the Goliath and in chess you never know - and one bad move really changes everything...
1.e4 ... I've played this before and done okay, I hear its popular in Russia so it must be good !?  }8-D
Sicilian Defense, still the first choice of Grandmasters vs 1. e4 . Perhaps it always will be!? What do you think? Can you guess, or already know why it is such a popular choice for GM's; and others too? I'll tell a few of the reasons: #1 It "tests" the opponent thru all phases of the Game. First is the Opening itself which has reams of theory written on every variation conceivable. The breadth and depth of this theory gives an opponent ample opportunity to err in the very opening, and still can produce improvements aor TN's (Theoretical Novelties- Basically a substantially untried move which one hopes is no worse than present theory, yet new and different. It might even be slightly inferior but produce such complexity that a well prepared player may feel it is worth playing). The Middle-Game: Here too there is plenty of room for Improvements and novelties and simply knowing or playing the variations better than the opponent. And finally the End Game comes, if the opp has not yet succumbed. And it makes for a certain type of endgame as well. It will almost certainly have "unbalanced pawn structure" which is considered much less drawish than balanced wings. Also many Rook or Rook + Minor piece endings will occur, giving a player of the Sicilian a chance to put extra study and experience in them to good use.
The Najdorf Variation begins
This is the point where I consider it a true Fischer's Attack, for the Bb3 choice was his trademark.
Whoops~! It just went Scheveningen on me. And rather a Kere Attack I believe, but didnt have time to look it up before moviing :)
There was a long pause, so I believe it is now he realizes that g6 gives h7# being Mate. And odd mate for this opening. He should try ...f6 here instead of Nf6
An interesting game against a good player, for Ajun and I have traded a number of past wins. But the peculiarity of the attack brings the victory.
got all minor pieces out of that side.
lost queen
también es catrastrófico<n>Alternative variation: 25.Bxg8 Be4+ 26.Kc1 Rxg8
The English opening - one I haven't played in quite awhile, but I thought I'd give it a try
I don't know whether I'm right or not here, but the general idea of the English opening is the d5 square. With this aggressive move, Black pretty much declares that the d5 square is his!
the right pawn recapture - Black keeps centre pawns on the d and e file
? never move a piece twice in the opening... and I saw an opportunity for a discovered attack here...
?? Black sees two threats (though Nc7+ can still be played) but misses Qxc8+. Now, Black is in for a world of hurt... I think best for Black would have been 9...Qc4 10.Qxc4 dxc4 11.Nc7+ Kd8 12.Nxa8
another variation is 10...Ke7 11.Bb4+ Qd6 12.Bxd6#, so this variation is...um....'better'...
Third !!! so the game is done, there is no good solution for blacks.
then black resign. So this is a good exemple of what not to do when black fight bird
I don't care about NxN, KxN, so to join the Rs... and Nxe5 is not possible yet for black, so the "point" behind Qe7 has not came to anywhere. My move threats two pawns (Nc6 won't be defended after Qxb7, so the pawn is not poisoned). (quick quiz) Can you see how to defend both pawns?
Not this. Natural move, but it happens that from here, black's fate is almost inevitable. Due to the sac and the Qe7 (bad) idea, Bdsb is trapped, and so is Rh8, while white has it very easy to penetrate on black's white squares, due to the poor position of Bg6. Note that, normally, this B is very powerful, but here he is just targeting nothing (I can't play Rb1, ok, that's all!). Nec5 instead, Qa3, Na6, and after Q's exchange, black can take a breath. Or NxN, KxN, d4, threatening dxc3+ or dxe3+...
...but this seems to recover the piece. But for... (can you find the correct combination?)
A light play in the opening lead to disaster in few-than-expected moves. I hope I didn't misassessed the position too much! (Capablanca is still scratching his eyes: no endgame! He will rest in peace, for once :-D)
I felt quite smug seeing this.  It's not often I can accurately predict my opponent's moves!
A bit of a waiting move with ideas of possibly advancing the b-pawn and developing the lsb to b7
A surprise.  I thought White would encourage me to blunder before advancing this pawn!  It is good though.
Now Black has hanging pawns and three pawn islands, a strategic weakness in a game of attrition, but the pawns are mobile and pushing White back for now.
! Or so I thought.  White's Bishops may be on the rim but they dominate Black's centre and back row, preventing him from coordinating his rooks properly.  Over the next 22 moves, White regains his time on the clock and Black achieves precisely nothing!  The position of these Bishops reminds me of one of Anderssen's great games - The Immortal Game?
I had long been expecting this as preparation for White to occupy d6 with his Rook.  In the cold light of day it does look odd, though, to give up this active B for Black's enfeebled N.
He helped a lot. But let's see...
Castling rights lost.
...and Rh7 is lost. Can you believe I didn't take it? But let's see why!
Najdorf variation. My personal favourite.<n>The idea behind a6 is that black wants to play e5 eventually, to chase the white knight off the d4 square and gain position in the centre. However playing it right of the bat, without a6 is not a good idea. White can play:<n>5....-e5 6.Bb5-Nbd7 7. Nf5-a6 8.Bxd7-Qxd7. With 6....-Bb7 the outcome is the same. White has a much stronger position at this point. A lot of space first of all and pieces that develop easily. In fact white only needs to castle and develop Bc1. Whereas black still needs to make space to develop his bishops. Still it's being played and I believe it's even a variation, but I don't know the name. I wouldn't recommend it though.<n>By playing 5...-a6 black prevents in fact any piece from taking position at b5. Which is positive because Sicilian often ends up in a race between white and black. White attacking the kings side. Black attacking the queens side. 5...-a6 prepares that attack for black
Again moving my pawn in a better position while attacking one of his pieces. He looses a tempo while I gain one by developing a piece. Remember I'm far behind due to the pawn play in the beginning of the opening.<n>Whites pawn on e4 also becomes weak and as for my weaker pawn on d6: it is not under any attack at the moment and can be easily defended.<n>The f5 move has opened up an extra line for an attack on my kings side. So I decided to postpone going for the castle.
Developing a piece and attacking the e4 square at the same time.<n>Sometimes chess does not have to be difficult. Develop your pieces into a strong position and make your opponent loose tempos by keeping the pressure on his weaker points.<n>If you don't see the attack immediately, position your pieces on easy defensible squares, and wait for your opponent to create the opening. Off course this is situation dependent. If you wait too long your opponent has an advantage in the end game
Should have played Qc6.<n>But I was too excited about gaining the advantage that I might as well trade of the queens and head off into the mid game.
When Reti popularized the hyper-modern opening named after him (1 Nf3), he had some profound positional concepts in mind, such as controlling the center from the wings instead of attacking it with pawns. But when confronted with such admirable tacticians as Dr. Treybal, the game became as wild as anything arising out of the King's Gambit.
Here, black boldly aims for a queen-side pawn majority at the expense of giving white control of the center.
Another great fighting draw. Black cannot make progress despite the extra pawn on a7, owing to opposite-colored bishops.
Another game in the annotation project part II.<n><n>Recently I have fallen away in this tourney after a good start.<n><n>I've seen some of Bobs annotations over the years but never played him.<n><n>I'm not really going to look in depth here more an over view from Whites perspective.
I've seen this move a few times, I like the following little combination although I'm not sure if its totally the strongest series of moves.
I think white is in a good place here, just a matter of having the know how to push forward.
Hoping for a discovered atack on Queen with an attack on pawn/knight/rook but nothing is falling into place for a cheap attack..
If I can get my Knight out of the way, Rook to a8 wins the game for white...<n><n>Of course black has to oversee it and not defend against it (so chances are slim)
Wins sac and pawn at worst, best wins White the game.
So we've cleared a lot of wood off the board, Whites advantage is with the extra pawns.
If black takes it hands White the game.
That's it I didn't think that anything else would give me a chance, esp as I've lost the last few in the tourney didn't want to take the chance and I have respect for Bob's play and was happy to draw (even though he does have poor taste in football teams!!) <n><n>Thanks for the game Bob.
Sometimes in chess material advantages do not mean a whole lot and the Tarrasch Defense proves this point. In exchange for the isolated d-pawn black gains space free development and attacking chances. This game features perfectly the key characteristics of well coordinated pieces in tandem with superior mobility that are trademark Tarrasch.
In this line of the Tarrasch white seeks to retain his pawn advantage. However, just like in the Queen's Gambit accepted it is wiser to give it back the extra pawn for rapid development.  I consider this an inferior move that in the end creates serious holes on the queen side especially on c3. <n><n>As it turns out I have played this move myself to a winning advantage. here is the link<n><n>http://gameknot.com/annotate.pl?id=29189
business as usually. I complete my development before attacking. other than my isolated pawn I have no serious weaknesses. Notice that I have not developed any of my queen side pieces? This is because the threat of b4-b5, also most grandmasters delay developing the light bishop until white plays his.
the proof of the shakiness of 6. b4 is that white thinks it is necessary to support it. Although at this point it is not in any danger so the move is a bit of a waste of tempo. I kinda like the idea of Bb2 myself
This is a bit of a risky move, however I felt that with my king tucked away it was time to deal with the chief reason why my queen side pieces were not developed(b4!). With ...a5 I bust open for use the h file and create some time and space to take advantage of the fact that whites king is still in the centre.
black is down by a pawn but has the initiative for it. Black has two threats one is to advance the d pawn and the second is to capture b4.
12. Qb2 would have prevented this nasty thrust. Black's IDP is a double edge sword it is both his weakest point but if not respected(like in this game) it becomes his most powerful weapon.
In exchange for the knight black has gained excellent mobility, a supported past pawn, back rank threats and dominance on the queen side.
??<n>Often times in chess mistakes are not outright(i.e dropping a piece) rather are the result of small positional blunders. Here the Bishop does prevent the checkmate on f2 but it also takes away a escape route from the king. Therefore it can not be the best move. I was expecting...<n><n>22. Bxa6!(the only way I see to ensure the draw) Qxf2+ 23. Kg4 Qxg2+(black has regained some material but does not have enough for the win) 24. Bg3! (the bishop returns home to assist in the defense and the game is drawn)
White avoids the Ruy Lopez (3.Bb5) and chooses the Scotch Game instead. This opening is characterized by the open center and usually White's strong central presence.
Black could resign, with a mere Bishop for his Queen, but chooses to fight on--it's still early in the game, and there's plenty of time for White to make mistakes.
? I simply don't see a purpose to this move. It needlessly weakens the Black King's position, when Black *should* be focusing on getting all his pieces out. When you're behind in material, it is absolutely critical to make every move count, and make more use of the pieces you *do* have.
White is playing soundly, just developing and solidifying his advantage.
? It's not clear what Black is planning, but it sure isn't "keeping his King safe". This lets White force the exchange on e6 and further grow his advantage.
Ooh, not good. This loses a pawn to 24.Qxh3+ Kg8 25.Qxe6+. Not to mention, it opens the h-file.
! Black finds his opening. White has only one response.
Well-spotted by White. This was a game, I think, about dealing with mistakes. Black gave up his Queen early and seemed to panic as a result, making a lot of useless moves and unable to come up with a plan. White gave his Queen up to a nice tactic later, but didn't get nearly so flustered, and continued to simply look for a victory with his other pieces. It's a good lesson to learn.
!? Something that I have never seen before, and I have no idea of its playability at the time. Checking the database now, I find this variation to be the Marshall variation (after White's next move)
Checking after the game, I find that this game leaves the database with this move, the three other alternatives being d6, c4 and dxe6. Perhaps d6 might have been best here to put the cramp in Black's position, but that would have been a completely different game from this one.
Development with an additional attack on the undefended c5 pawn...
? but Black chose the wrong pawn to defend it with! 6...d6 would have saved Black a lot of heartache for sure! With this move, I saw that b5 would be a pretty place for my knight. I also note, however, that it's not an outpost as Black can kick away the knight with a6. However, when looking through this line, I realise...
Hi! this game only my recent victory against a tough opponent. He gave me a lot of pressure before I managed to outplayed him. I'm playing black so I'm preparing my fave Sicilian Defense once he opened e4. So let me hear all of your criticisms and suggestion, because my annotation was based on my logical perception and evaluations.<n><n>My opponent played e4..
Most of the time I replied c5, It's very rare I used e5. But e5 is the most logical and solid  reply from black
My opponent continued his development according to widely accepted opening theory. Nf6 control the e5 and influenced the d4 square, and as well the normal development of of one of his minor pieces for the purpose of  king castle.
I played my favorite Najdorf variation, the fave of Fischer and Kasparov. This move gives black queen bishop free development and to restrict white pawn advance in e5 square.
d4 the most common reply from white. Danish GM Bent Larsen heavily criticized the exchange of  center pawn with the plank pawns. He developed and popularized one opening,  the Larsen Opening which begin with b3.
the normal reply from black
centralizing his queen and also restrict the advance of my g pawn, most of the players agree 6. Nxd4 is the logical move
just intended to pin the pawn and the white queen, but with loss of my two minor pieces in exchange of a rook. If 10.. Ne8, white continue 11. Bf4 then 12. Rhe1. Either my move white still has slight edge 10.. Nh5 I admit is too risky to exchange my two minor pieces against rook!!
So now at the first glance its much easy to handle the white position, his first objective is to exchange my other rook and then shift his two minor pieces to harass my two pawns in queenside which give him a two passed pawn. generally two minor pieces has an advantage against a rook.
this is good instead of 20..fxg6 because it will isolated my double pawns in e file which is not good.
He totally committed his king to support his two minor piece in queenside but neglecting the kingside. It's not too late,  his move should move 25. Ke3.
my logical reply.
to help my rook's battle against two minor pieces..
White is already lost here. But still hoping for my mistake :-)
Additional Annotation on end of the game starting with move 17 for Black.
This, however, loses material and with it the game.
For some reason the annotation capabilities of GameKnot would not let me annotate the remaining moves of the game - so here is what I would have said....Remember, White is already lost in this position with best play by Black.<n><n>18.Nf4 c4! 19.bxc4 (19.Bxc4 Nxc4 20.bxc4 Qb2+ 21.Kd1 Qxb1+ 22.Ke2 Qa2 would have held out longer perhaps, but is still losing.) 19...Bc3 (not so much to win the R as to keep with White K from escaping at d2). 20.Nxc2??? loses instantly (see below for alternatives) bxc3 21.Resigns since the next move is Qa1 mate.<n><n>I had expected 20.c5 Ne5 21.c6 Nbc4 22.Bxc4 Nxc4 23.Rd3 Qb2+ 24.Kd1 Nxe3+ 25.Rxe3 Qxb1+ 26.Ke2 Qxc2+ 27.Kf1 Qd1+ 28.Kf2 Qd2+ 29.Re2 Qxf4 when Black wins easily with his 2 extra bishops and Q-side passed pawns.
Englund Gambit.  I have not played against this before.  According to Wikipedia, the idea is for Black to move into a tactical game and away from the closed d4 openings.  I thought the game definitely had more of an e4 character, so I think it succeeded at that.
Black is down a pawn, but has an extra tempo to compensate.
This is definitely not smart.  It gives Black too much pressure of f3.
I think this was an oversight.  Black was thinking about his attack and didn't notice his N was hanging.
Black is down to two Rs.
Hm... The Guicco Pianissimo, the very quiet game. Never my favorite, I think it's a little passive.
?! Allows doubled pawns, but I planned to attack down the f file. In this game it paid off.
Let's take stock of this position: Material: equal, but white has the bishop pair on an open board. White has a slight edge in material. Piece activity: I think white is better. Presence of threats: Black is much better, with a massive attack on f2. Pawn structure: Black has doubled pawns and two pawn islands, white has no doubled pawns and one pawn island. White is better. Overall, I think that if white can survive the coming attack then he'll end up on top.
! Good, this cuts down an attacker on f2, and he has the choice to take with his knight or his pawn.
?? And this isn't one!! If he hadn't done this then I doubt I could have made it through. This, however opens the back door for me.
Good, discovers an attack but it's just a bluff.
Again, the f file is the funnel to channel all my pieces down. White is staring down the barrel of a devastating attack poised for launch.
Good move, provides a hole for his king.
!! I finally find it. To prevent a lethal discovered attack white must swap queen for rook. White resigns. Ordinarily I don't care if my opponent resigns, but I kind of with I could have played this out to mate as it seems really interesting. Oh well it's his choice.
A bit of another surprise for black. I don't think it is all that bad...
!? To untangle his pieces, white sacrifices a pawn. Qc6 is pointless now, so better try to relocate the queen.
Awfully distributed pieces, but maybe I have a chance to coordinate.
My knight controls his, but can't move, so my other pieces are half trapped too.
...but they are not necessarily good for me... now, look...
I'm pretty sure that this is an opening, but it transposes.
This does two things. #1. It keeps me equal and #2, even better, the King has to take it.
Unfortunately, I make this move and the game is roughly equal.
All right, lets see what I get out of this exchange.
This isn't the best idea, but it isn't the worst.
If my Queen is so tempting, why not put it on e3?
This threatens mate on the next turn. Black would have to check me or just put her Queen on f6.
I complete minor piece development
? This is terrible, it cripples his light square defense.
Ruy Lopez Opening
Marshall Attack - Black sacrifices a pawn in return for a lead in development and good chances for a king-side attack.
Seems logical to claim the e file (especially as white's Queen-side is so undeveloped)<n>(Although, Shredder score it about even here)
I take his Queen and he resigns..... (if 20. Kxf1 then Black wins with Bh3+, 21. Kg1 Re1 ++)<n><n>Thanks for looking...... enough encouragement for me to give the Marshall another try.
Here's a lucky escape against a young schoolboy who outplayed me for most of the game.  It does show the importance of hanging on in there!
Fortunately, I can chase Black's Q away in the nick of time.
A pause for conventional development ...
Again improving the position of one of my pieces while attacking Black's R and preventing the B from immediately occupying the long diagonal.  My rooks are also reconnected.
! but this dampened my optimism.  I can't take the pawn as my rook is attacked and now Black has powerful connected central pawns and can develop his B to any number of good squares.
! Threat exf4+! winning the R and the game.
My first check of the game but can I make it count?
Here playing white on a King's knight gambit. It's a blitz game 5min+15.
Well it was a good game.
Black now has two pieces on Pe4, while white has just Nc3.  Qd3 loses the queen, but Qd2 would not be too bad.
Black's advantage to trade.
1.d4. I´m more of an e4 player, and when playing black I always defend with the Sicilian defense. But anyways Any time I see d4 I immediately go with...
This was my first surprise, I though I would see the traditional 3.Nc3. I just followed the book here.
and here it is.
Look at white pieces they are all stuck on the queen side, and almost all of them are on the back rank not to mention his rook at a1 its useless, not a good position to be in.
Keeping the king on the back rank, this is a lost game for white.
Black resigns at this point everything went downhill for him after my 11th move.  By the way this was not the best move... the best move here was 32...Rg1+  33.Ke2 (and only then) Ng3#.  Anyways, not the best chess but thats how my brain works. I hope you can get something out of this game.
The Ruy Lopez Opening. White threatens the defender of e5 in an attempt to gain an advantage in development and tempo.
Why was this move played?
I develop my final minor piece.
Why was this move played?
Controlling my side of the d-file.
I actually don't know why I did this. What would be a better move?
Why was this move played?
Is this OK?
Why was this move played?
The game has become in effect a Giuoco Piano with colors reversed.
The exchange leaves me with a central Pawn mass and an open file for my KR.
With both sides having Castled, the middle-game now begins. I have a slight advantage in development, but the position is roughly even.
Now it's a matter of advancing the Q-side Pawns.
I can exchange this B, sure, but I'll have in e5 a N, threatening to come to g6... I wasn't sure. These were time-consuming moments for both of us.
This pins my own f pawn, but I dont' have to move it necessarily. I'm doing this because I want to keep my R on th h column, in sight of a possible sacrifice (Nxg5). Moreover: I can play on this lsb by harassing it with d6, and It will be lost for white. In return, I'll have to waken my e6 pawn, which is very dangerous in this asset. The advantage of doing that: white, as far as I can see, is in no position to cause a serious threat on e6 in few moves. My lsb will become active without even having moved from his home square. My R is trapped, as his. A R on the 7ºth will always help my K...
White is +4, but he is just too underdeveloped. His sacs were not well timed. The interesting part of this clumsy game is the center situation. Look at it... but now, black has serious threats, for example, Nxg2 (followed by Rg7)
I have to be careful. If Rxg2+, Kh1, Rxf7 (say), white has Bh5+, etc. If pieces are exchanged, my own caged pieces and exposed K may become a factor...
?? It was very few time, and I missed the winner. Anyway, this should be winning... if I keep my mind together!
Curiousely, if I exchange Q, he will have the same chances as me. I have lost too much, I have to accept my fail, and get to recover the material while I can.
Now: I am a R up, but my pieces are still pinned in its initial squares... so my extra R is not really playing. And both K so exposed... is this a crazy game?
...hoping in..
Ok, ok, I lost the e3xf2 check. But I have a concrete material win here.
Setting a little trap. My opponent didn't consider it, and the game is over.
Now, it is a boring won game. A pity.
All natural development for black so far.
Now there is double pressure against his e pawn.  I'm curious what white was thinking to accomplish with the early assault, however, to the point, now white has two choices for defense: Qe2 or d4.
Now for an attack of my own.  White has two real responses here, Bg2 or the path he chose, Ne4.  If Bg2, Qe5+ offers some rich possibilities for black.
Attack!  Or is it?
Now white has no choice but to move Ke2.
I'm not certain about the utility of this move.  Although white has lost his castle, he still has piece parity, so now I would have moved Bg2 (still!) to continue development, then all of his pieces on the back rank are supporting each other.
And so it begins.
I think Kf2 is better here, providing support for his g1 rook, and giving some extra defense for his f3 pawn.
This game shows one of the best opening sacrifices I've ever played.
Nf3?! is totally winning for Black, because after cxd4 Nxd4, Black has an extra pawn in the centre, my pawn on e5 is weak, and Black is ahead in development.
This stops a future Bb5  and threatens to win a pawn, however, I decide to finish developing while Black is busy winning a pawn or two.
Now Black is up a pawn, and may win another, and it seems as though I don't have any compensation, but Black's position is somewhat cramped, and I can gain tempo attacking Black's queen.
After Ng6 I have Qxd5, but however, this move allows me to go into crazy tactical game where I exploit Black's underdeveloped position.
Takes away the threat on my rook with tempo.<n>If Qxe5? then Nf7  wins the queen.
Black could also sac his queen for my rook leaving him with two rooks against my queen, but I would still have the compensation I have for the rook.
Now that I have won my rook back, Black has no material advantage, and I still have my active pieces.
Takes away the threat on my rook with tempo.
I can win the rook with Bxh7, but I'm not comfortable trading queens when I don't have many pawns on the board for the endgame. I choose the best way to win the rook while keeping my pieces active.
I was actually a little annoyed that Black resigned here. Even though I will use my superiorly placed pieces and extra rook to tactically crush his underdeveloped position, I would've had fun doing it, and just being handed a win isn't as fun. It's the thinking required to win the game that's fun, not the win itself.
Closing the Sicilian. Back in the days before I became almost exclusively an English player as White, I loved playing the the Closed Sicilian.
More challenging (and more book) immediately is 6. f4, swallowing up a ton of space on the K-side and setting the table for the stereotyped strategies to follow, with White playing a positional game based on space control and a K-side build-up as Black tries vigorously to break White in the center and on the Q-side, even if it's at the cost of a little material. Playing cautiously in the Closed means Black will often drift into a cramped and passive position; tactical energy and nerves of ice are called for, and Black must be willing to risk an attack by White to get his fair share of the position.
White builds his position in the classical way for this opening.
I consistently borrow this idea from the Kings Indian when I play the English as White (especially in my pet Nimzovich-Flohr variation), and in the Closed Sicilian as Black. Here, the steed is heading for c7 (or c2 in the English) where it will buttress the center and stand poised to assist in a Q-side counter-attack.
One good h-file sortie deserves another. The text dissuades White from castling right away. As we'll see, it dissuades him from castling toward his KR at all ...and White always wants to castle on the K-side in the Closed variation because Black's counter-attack always roars up the Q-side.
! Nice! White means to have h5 for his Knight, with pressure on Black's K-side.
Black walks a razor's edge, but for the moment everything is holding. White has to *prove* he can win this.
White speculates a pawn in the hope of ripping open a center file for his attack.
Black is threatening to add his a-pawn to the storm glowering on the Q-side's horizon.
?! He missed it.
This move is safe. White has no time for 47. Qe7 Kg4  48. Qf7 Qc2 mate!
It won't help. Black's cleric is on the perfect diagonal: it holds *everything.*
Black will get a new Queen, so White resigned. *THAT* was a fun game, boys and girls!
Black has a worse pawn structure but still the position is completely drawn.
After this move the game was agreed drawn.
Black Counters for middle position.
white takes with pond
black takes and still has center position
black takes and regains center control
white follows expecting to protect and proceed for the end game!
Today's game features a player that plays regularly in blitz. In the first move, I face a black e6, which means I'm probably going against the French defense, a break from the Sicilian Defense games that I've played and encountered. I'm hoping for a Rubenstein variation as the best case scenario, as white will have a great space advantage to work with.
Now it's my turn to threaten the queen.
While I wait for the fatal movement, I wreak havoc with bob's remaining pawns in the meantime.
An awkward position, giving Black a lead in development but also something of a foregone conclusion after 4. Bc4.
Good eye for development, but at the cost of a pawn.  Bf4 is ugly, but saves the pawn - for now.
Using a tempo to defend a doubled pawn seems to me, in this case, a poor choice (especially since it also impedes the Bishop).  f4 doesn't save the pawn, but it might get a good trade out of it - and develop that Bishop simultaneously.  It might also be time to accept the lost point and spin the wheel by doing something [seemingly] random like c4, Nc5, or O-O.
?  Missing the fork.  Black's attack also illustrates the problem with trying to defend doubled pawns while short on pieces: overwhelming attacks.
Alekhine's Defense can get tricky very quickly since it seems like such a dumb idea that many players don't run into it often.  I don't really fault your lack of opening theory, but always remember to develop a solid position rather than running after fleeting hopes.  Although the enemy Knight can be attacked, don't do it if the attack damages the gradual maturing of your own position.  Although your pieces can be defended, be willing to retreat if you are facing a substantial counterattack.  And above all, grasp, hold, and defend the center with pieces!  Get your Knights out early, and your Rooks centered.  And of course, be ever hopeful - in this world you will have tribulation, but we follow One who has overcome this world. [John 16:33]
It's not my favorite variation;
The position didn't suit me. It' rather equilibrated but black is stronger in the center, black has a lack of mobility and the black bishop is blocked on f8
Let's go for trading ! No pieces, no attack.
At this point I felt relief. The danger seemed passed and I was quite satisfied of myself. The b open file is still dangerous for black but white's pawn structure is far inferior. If I can trade the pieces, the game's end is for black.
its been a while and im not "booked" so i try strange things to me all the time....queen pawn, lets see.
im about to drop so piece so im hoping for a mistake by my opointnet, as im almost lost, his queen side attack is strong.....
Forking two pawns, but they're defended. Still, it keeps white's knights busy.
The white knight on d2 has only two legal moves, both of which are suicide. It must be defended instead of moved. White's pieces are getting in each others' way.
Nope, he didn't see it, and now it's game over. 41. Rf5?? loses to an almost forced checkmate, beginning with 41. ... Nd1!. Look at those three black pieces working together like a well-oiled machine. White can survive, for the short term, with 42. Re5 Rxe5 43. Rxd1 Rxd1+ and now the white king escapes, but faced with a lone king against two black rooks, white would have a hopeless endgame and will soon be checkmated. All other continuations lead to checkmate with black playing Re1# or Rxd1#, though white can stall for a while with a series of rook moves.
Less pieces on the board - more powerful extra pawns
The one game in the World DB with this line continues 6.Bb5 d5 7.exd6 e.p. Qxd6 8.Ne5 Bd7 9.Nxd7 Qxd7 10.O-O and Black managed to hold a draw through a very complex endgame.
White is castled and has two pieces on the field. Black is cramped and has nothing developed--I don't envy his position here.
! I like this move quite a lot. Black's kingside is very exposed, of course, and he still has zero developed pieces, but this move kicks the Ne4 as well as controlling g4, and if White takes en passant, 12.exf6 e.p. Nxf6 frees Black's position immensely, though at the cost of a weakened pawn structure.
Black retreats after snatching a pawn and opening the d-file. I think the Queen could have still taken on c4, but the position is unclear.
Black prepares to challenge the open file (and relieves his Queen from her defense of the Bd7). Lucky for White, Black's position is just as tangled as his.
? Black should have taken on g4 immediately, to half-open the f-file against White's backward f-pawn. Moreover, this move prevents the BQ from defending g6 down the e8-h5 diagonal, so that when White plays Qf6+, Black must respond with ...Qg7 rather than ...Rg7 (if Black interposes with the Rook, gxf5 Nxf5 Rxg6 is very strong). After ...Qg7, White has g4-g5, creating a strong point and eventual passed pawn on f6, and allowing (eventually) a Knight to jump in on e5, striking at all of Black's weaknesses.
This seemed prudent. Black doesn't want to recapture with his h-pawn, as it's needed to defend his King, and he mustn't recapture with his Queen because of a deep combination that wins a piece for White...
?? I had gone on vacation around this time, and completely forgotten about the combination I was to play in this position. Now Black has time to consolidate on the open g file with ...Rg8.
?? This is the final mistake. My Queen trade offer comes too late; necessary was 34.Qf3. Now Black picks up an extra Rook.
0-1. After 35.Rxh3 Rxe4, Black's lead is insurmountable, so White resigns. Many thanks to gotschall for this great back-and-forth game! I hope you enjoyed reading it; comments are much appreciated!
White has a good position
not certain what this opening is, but I don't like how black is already attacking my pawn.
accomplished.  as suspected, i have no pieces in the attack.
bishop takes pawn is best herw
He doesn't know it yet but black just lost with that move.
Alternative variation: 20... Qb6 21. Kh1 Rcd8 22. Rxf4 (22. Bxf4 Ne6 23. Qg3 Nxf4) (22. Rd1 Nf5 23. Qe2 Ne3 24. Bxe3 Qxe3 25. Qc2) 22... Rxf4 23. Bxf4 Ne6 24. Qg3 Nxf4 25. Qxf4 Rf8
A terrible move!  Black still had hopes of saving the game with Nh7 or other strong moves, but this blatant absence of paying attention to white's threats is punished swiftly.
We are equal as far as material,however white has a positional advantage
All book so far.
With both players castled, the opening is finished and the interesting part of the game begins.
An interesting choice, undoubling the Black QB Pawns.
Pressuring the Q-side.
Now Duras has 2 connected passed Pawns of his own.
The game hangs in the balance. Cohn plays for a mating attack.
Duras has to make forcing moves of his own.
The critical juncture. 43... PxP! draws the game.
With the Knight pinned, Cohn has no choice.
This brilliant sacrifice caps Duras' remarkable winning sequence. If Cohn tries 47... PxR, 48 Q-Q7 ch wins the Q and the game. So...
How about f6?
I opt for the two knight defense. Pretty much normal so far
?? Although I didn't see it when I played this game, this move is met by Rf8+ (or 0-0+), which  is mate in 2 after 12. Nf7 Rxf7+ 13. Kg2 Qf2# or 13. Ke2 Qe4#
! My opponent actually resigned here at this nice royal fork, but the next moves shows how I would have finished the game
Weakening his King side, which would come back to haunt him at the end of the game.
I now have the f file and the stronger minor piece. White works in the next sequence to create a passed pawn to offset my advantage.
???   47...g6 was winning! His b pawn is a fixed target that will eventually fall. And he cannot defend his 4 isolated pawns with two pieces. 47...Nc8?? allowed a draw, although white resigned.
The Alekhine's Defense. It's been 20 years since I played competitively or read a chess book. I seem to recall my understanding of this defense was to build my 4 center pawns up by chasing the black knight - this was considered strong for white. Maybe I am just remembering poorly; I've forgotten a lot in 20 years. In any case, 2. e5 is the main line.
The Two Pawns Variation. c4 is a good square for a pawn, threatening the center and relatively unassailable by black pieces. And the move gains a little tempo by chasing the knight off of d5.
Black's 5. ... g5 took me by surprise. I even went back to an old opening book and didn't see this line getting much credit.
My center has already crumbled somewhat and black has a big edge in development.
And now I've lost a pawn, but at least I'm gaining a little on the development angle.
I liked my opponent's 11. Nd7? (I think it earns a ?) because it let me exchange my precarious e5 pawn and when black recaptures, it will leave him with isolated f and h pawns. Maybe I'll end up with some decent compensation here with black's weak pawn structure. Even better, by capturing with 12. exd6, I expose a bishop attack on the long diagonal, so black cannot immediately recapture at d6.
Sneaky. The queen on b2 defends the pawn. I have to admit, I was hoping my opponent would overlook that. Regardless, this move lets me attack one of the weak isolated black pawns, and combined with my queen, seems to open some interesting lines of attack into black's home along those long diagonals.
Ahh, development is fairly even, material is even, and black's pawns are still a mess. I think I've reached a viable middlegame here, but I still don't think I handled the Alekhine properly.
Black might want to trade queens, but that works for me. It lets me get ahead in material.
Black has equalized the opening.
White's pieces are aggressively placed. So Black tries to exchange pieces to weaken the attack
White's pieces are becoming more active with every move and Black is being driven back whose pieces are mostly on the back rank.
White has activated all his pieces and look at Black's pieces.<n><n>21. Nh5 gxh5 22. Qg7 and black's rook is lost.
Just in case there is any uncertainty with regards to the rules of this popular game, here is a summarised version of the 'Blide Verpoinian Chess rules'<n><n>___<n>1.1 Nature and Objectives:<n><n><n>All pieces behave in the same way as they do in conventional chess, moves alternate as usual.<n><n>The objective of the game is to capture the opponent's 2 rooks (not including promoted pawns) whilst avoiding checking the opponent's king. As soon as the opponent's king is checked, the opponent wins the game. If no move can be played without checking the opponent's king, the game is a draw.<n>___<n>6.1 Special Rules:<n><n>If either player hesitates just as they are about to make a move, the opponent is allowed to cry out 'Maggot-Moose' and they will be rewarded with a free legal move of their opponents pieces. The words 'Maggot-Moose' must be said articulately; 'Magga-Moose', 'Maggom-Toos' or 'Mag-Moose' are not acceptable.<n><n>If a player temporarily leaves the game for any reason during play, it is acceptable for the opponent to slyly move pieces around at their discretion.<n><n>If for any reason, either player leaves the game before it has finished and doesn't return within exactly 5 minutes, both players must be roasted and fed to the spectators.
This move is a continuation of the 'corner-fort defense' (one of Safeway's favourite openers)
As all Jabborg fans know, Jabborg has many unique pawn openings; this particular opening 'Jabborgian Torpedoes' involves launching the front line pawns 1 by 1 in the hope of overwhelming their opponent's defences.<n><n>Safeway continues his defence as expected.
Chess analysts who have studied the Verponian chess 'corner-fort defense' have discovered that even though it is strong, it is flawed by the necessity for the king to remain in 1 position for a long time. Ancient heroes of Verponian chess were successful for their great king maneuverability - the king being a valuable weapon in Verponian chess
With another torpedo on it's way and the 'corner-fort defense' now in place, Safeway would likely begin to develop his remaining pieces
'Here is an example of a diagonal Joop - Black wins the duel.'
'Also, this position is good for black, white can't escape the diagonal joop'
In the heat of the game, Safeway misses an opportunity for the diagonal joop on e3
White usually disdains this capture and plays 10. 0–0–0, thinking to get on with the traditional kingside offensive, but it is interesting to see what happens if he does play the obvious move.<n><n>Putih biasa tidak mencaplok di sini dan bermain 10.0-0-0 rotasi panjang, untuk memperoleh serangan dari arah sayap raja. Akan menarik untuk melihat apa yang terjadi kalau dia main langkah tersebut.
It would all too easy to fill up the page with analysis here but let’s look at just one alternative: 20...d5!? 21 exd5 Nxg4 is another try if Black is afraid of being mated. However, White could continue with 22 Bg5!?, e.g. 22...Nf2 23 d6! Nxd1 24 Qe6+ Kh8 25 d7! and White seems to emerge with an advantage.<n><n>Cukup banyak variasi di sini, salah satu alternatif hitam 20...d!? (sesuai di atas) bisa dilangkah kalau hitam takut skak mat. Tapi putih bisa main 22.Bg5!? (sesuai di atas) dan Putih keliatan lebih baik malah.
Both players were in severe time trouble by now. Here Nigel Short thought he must be winning on the kingside but calculated that his likeliest tries were flawed, e.g. 22 Rxh5!? Nxe3 23 Qxe3 23...Rf1! 24 Rh1 (24 Rxh7+ Kxh7 25 Qh3+ Bh6+ (the fact that this is check is vital, of course) 26 g5 Nd3+!! is another stunning resource for Black) and now the implausible 24...Qd3!! comes to Black’s rescue. But 23 Qh2! would surely have won the game after all.<n><n>Keduanya memasuki masa krisis waktu. Nigel Short merasa ada potensi menang tapi segera sadar kalkulasinya salah contohnya 22. Rxh5!? Nxe3 23 Qxe3 23...Rf1! 24 Rh1 (24 Rxh7+ Kxh7 25 Qh3+ Bh6+ (skak di sini penting) 26 g5 Nd3+!! Hitam bisa cukup mematikan di sini) dan sekarang 24...Qd3!! bisa menyelamatkan hitam sudah. 23. Qh2! juga memenangkan.
Though Black has three sets of doubled pawns, his endgame advantage is secure.<n><n>Walaupun hitam terpecah dalam 3 set susunan bidak, tapi permainan akhirnya menjanjikan.
guess I'll just move that piece.  Black is way behind in development and this will cost him.  he certainly has more space, though and a lot of players who don't play by the principles are downright lethal as far as tactics.  This fellow gave me a run for my money before
Steinitz says attack!
I wasn't sure about trading a very active N for a somewhat lazy, no matter how good.  There's also the psychological element; letting white know I'm not afraid of confrontation
black has found a chink in the "armour" such as it is
The master 2B also said to bring in reinforcements for the attack.  This rook is happy to take charge of the d-file.  This is instead of trading Bs on c1 and does indeed leave b7 hanging, a lovely spot for la dame, as mentioned in another game.
I have been chastized for trading when down in points.
this was good, but castling early would take care of all this mess.  Is Nd5 good for white? ...Rxd5,23. Qxd5 Bh3+24. Rxh3 Qxh3 check and this isn't good.  could be 23....Qf3+ and white probably won't exchange Qs but I admit that I might.
I would like to share with you my good chess friends about how to win easly in Kings Gambit.I am not a weak player who wants to show his real strenght,I just want to show how beutiful this opening is and what great game white gets for sacrificed pawn if he will play it correctly.<n>-----------------------------------------------------<n>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King%27s_knight%27s_gambit<n><n>"White offers a pawn to divert the Black e-pawn and build a stronger center with d2-d4. Theory has shown that in order for Black to maintain the one pawn advantage, moves must be made that seriously weaken the position of the Black pieces. King's Gambit is one of the oldest documented openings as it was examined by the 17th century Italian chess player Giulio Polerio. It is in an older book by Luis Ramirez de Lucena The King's Gambit is rarely seen at the master level. Black can obtain a reasonable position by relinquishing the extra pawn at a later time and consolidating defensively."
Nf3 look very natural preventing Qh4 ,developing the pieces.<n>There is also Bc4!? and after Qh4  Kf1 and whites King cant castle anymore but black advantage is low and after Nf3 he will have to move his queen and white will have good lead in development and advatage in the center.remmember that black CANNOT even think about the attack becase you have all your pieces out and he dont you lead for the sacrificed f4 pawn .All attacks that I saw have created big problems for balck.
In this position white is defenedly better<n>The continuation of the game is just imroving whites winning chances
This game is a Catalan miniature, which features some nice tactical motifs.  I haven't annotated it too deeply, but everyone should be able to enjoy this game.
20. Nxa4 - what has happened here?  After a pawn trade and a rook trade the a column is opened up for a rook.  Yup, Freddy uses this opening to disastrous effect for Yours Truly.
31. Rb7 - this is the stuff of nightmares.  There is no way I can avoid losing a piece and the rest of my army is tied down.  I therefore feel I have sufficient grounds for resignation as the material loss coupled with the passivity is ruinous.  Therefore I would prefer to wave the white flag than suffer further torture.  So I make the jammy so and so's weekend by handing him one rating point.  I am now playing him as white and I hope I can do better - I will never give up until I end that losing run against him and I don't care how long it takes, but when I do it will be a big event when the Genie finally arises from the bottle - cheers and bye for now.  Joanne
a queen opening!
huh? why don't you just attack with the queen?
what is the point of this? I don't know.
So far, White doesn't seem to have achieved much.  He has cleared the f and g files of his pawns but Black's remain...
but this effectively stymied that hope.  The N has nowhere to go, so Black has to defend it with 38...Rh7, when it too has nowhere to go.  White can sweep up Black's errant pawn either by pulling the Rg8 back or swinging across with his K.  Recognising that I was lost, I resigned.  very well played by my 13-year-old opponent.<n>PS My ECF grade is 124, his is 136.  I've been converting these to ELO by multiplying by 8 and adding 650.  I've been told by Paul Trewhela, also of Banbury, that I'm using the wrong conversion equation but I'm sticking to it for now as at least I'm being consistent.
I don't think I've seen this exact move order before.
Wanting to maintain the battery and not sure what else to play, I make this rather pointless move.
The knight is lost, but Black gets to gobble up a couple pawns and obtain the first passed pawn of the game. This is important later.
But instead, Black exchanges his last piece. While that's generally inadvisable, the particulars of the position make it hard for White to exploit. Especially since this is me controlling the white forces.
But I see what Black is doing with this move, I completely panic. The c-pawn is running interference for the a-pawn. The right thing to do, is...well, it's not TOO hard to figure out.
Clearly I must get my king in the area of his pawns! And look how far his king is from my pawn still! Actually, this move blows the advantage. 'Pushing the passed pawn' is the correct play. And when Black plays ...c4, Bxc4 is the correct reply as White is going to win the queening race and even control Black's queening square while doing so. But now Black's king is fully capable of getting back to the h-pawn if needed.
I offered a draw, which was accepted. Strangely, the GK computer changes its assessment of the position from +1.05 for White to -8.23 with 52.Kd2, but since it's the last move of the game, there's no explanation. Did White really go from a win to a loss in two moves, or is the computer being wacky? (What is clear even to me is White's best case scenario is now a 'bishop and wrong rook pawn' ending.) As for the rest of the computer analysis, it finds the play on both sides rather sharp through move 20, and declares the rest of the game pretty much a mess of errors. The computer's analysis is at http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=21568775&rnd=0.8942676745355129
I decided to play the Italian game. While considered toothless it still has some dangerous lines if black isn't prepared for them. It however has been overshadowed by it's big brother the Ruy Lopez.
Not Bc5 the Traxler gambit which is a pretty wild game
? exd4 is more common however White still wins more than he loses. This was played in an exhibition game against Fischer.
Alternative variation: 20... bxa5 21. exf3 Bh3 $15
... traps the black queen! The queen has 3 moves and they all lead to capture! Black resigned at this point.
White's development now surpasses my own, but a trade of bishops on d3 only enhances this advantage. My bishop shall remain on g6.
The minor retreat is a setback but inevitable, but the downfall is easily compensated for by the limitng of White's development.
Whilst I have developed a passed pawn, the price of this is the isolated h-pawn. However, he can stave off both opposing pawns.
A closed position has occured.
8. Be3 - development.
28. Ke3?? - here is the error.  Do you see the camouflage?  Freddy reveals all in the next two moves and my position unravels big time.  Freddy had this to say about what I should have played here:-  "I tell you what I would have moved if I were on your side of the board.. 28. Ke2 instead of Ke3 > this to avoid a possible check from the bishop 29. h4 instead of gxf5 > avoid double pawns and keep your pawn line connected"
Solosky-Canal Variation is a good alternative for white if he wishes to avoid main line stuff. I used to play this years ago as a surprise weapon on OTB play.
Strictly speaking white can not be happy with how things are turning out. Black is far more advanced on the queen side. The LSB sits very well on the current diagonal.
When white plays Be3 in the Sicilian he almost always wants to play Qd2. Especially if black has played the Fianchetto. The reason for this is that later on white can setup all kinds of tactics on f6 and h6 with the support of the king pawns. But here this maybe a tad too early because this blocks the escape route of the DSB.  Allowing black to play his next move. <n>Alternative variation: [better is ] 10. f3 O-O 11. Qd2 Rc8 12. Rad1 [=]
?<n>white I think is trying to stay active. Which is a good think when defending for your life. However, activity at the expense of a minus two pawn count is very bad. When defending you should avoid further material loss at all costs.
If you have a chance use all of your pieces! White should have played Rac1. Who cares about the pawn on a2 when you have the Cap in your cross hairs.
black wishes to open the c8-a6 diagonal and try to start any kind of contra play on the queen side but does he have enough time to do it .
Al loves the Dutch, though technically this game never quite becomes one because White plays his d-pawn to the 3rd rank instead of the 4th. Had Al played 1. ...f5, I would have pounced on him with 2. g4!?, the Krejcik Gambit with which I've trounced him several times from within the context of an English pawn formation. Old dogs can, apprently, learn new tricks: Al's more circumspect here, waiting until I've committed both my KN and g-pawn in a way that makes the gambit impossible to play. ...Sneaky booger!
This move is virtually thematic with me, from this and any closely resembling "White Dragon" pawn formation. The Knight is off to c2 where it helps support the center and a Q-side pawn expansion. The move also uncovers the long diagonal for White's King's Bishop, another de rigueur theme for White in the fianchettoed English.
With the text Black pursues a strategy almost exclusive to the Dutch. And now if 9. Nb5 Bd8 followed by a push to c6 and Bc7, with an almost ideal defensive shell for the middlegame - in other words, exactly the sort of closed game Al prefers. So I didn't even consider 9. Nb5. ----- In some ways, as I remarked to Al during the game (we were talking on the phone while playing), our strategies became for a while a case of "I'll ignore you if you ignore me," as, as if by unspoken agreement, we each pursued the opening pretty much unmolested by the other.
Double-protecting the a-pawn before playing the break. Black's pieces have very little useful to do: White has a meaningful space advantage, while Black's K-side pawnstorm is mostly for show without his Queen to help facilitate it. It's a funny position - almost a sort of "inside joke" that only Al and I would understand right away: even though the fully closed position seems to favor his defensive style, the tactical breaks and chances all belong to me at the moment.
?! Black only makes things tense for himself with this exchange. White's a-pawn is now a potential game-winner.
Playing to g7 wasn't much better, with White's dark-squared Bishop looming on the other long diagonal, and a nasty break in the works after White plays his f-pawn to f4. However, at least ...Kg7 didn't block the h-file for Black's Rooks, which is what I was playing for.
Suddenly Black has all sorts of counterplay for his Exchange-down. This is the price you pay for not playing forcing moves, beginners; keep it in mind.
Urrrrk!! Gag!! Suddenly I see clearly what I've done to myself. Now I just have to make sure Al sees it too.
White's position is hopeless, and he resigns. What a shocker, from squandering a won game at move 27 to suicidally engineering a complete crash-and-burn by move 45, thanks to Black's absolutely beautiful swindling move and just one second of inattention immediately following it. This is truly what we call snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. ---But most of the credit has to go to Black's fighting spirit; he never gave up. Great game, Al!
Playing Black is my friend Baker who's been teaching me for over a year. I've beaten him lots of times in practice games, but this was the only time I ever beat him in a tournament, and FINALLY I found this game after scavenging through my papers. I play 1.Nf3 now, but a few months ago I was only copying Baker's openings, now I have my own style.
This move has a lot of purposes. It defends the c5-pawn, it opens lines for the bishop to develop, it prepares a d5 pawn advance in the future, and it also controls the important d5 square.
This is Open Sicilian since I am opening up the centre. Most variations are good for Black if White does not reclaim the d4 square.
Now Black has a choice. He can let me take the rook where I'll still have a strong attack on the dark squares (but he'll have two pieces for the rook), or sacrifice the queen and end up with three extra minor pieces.
Now Black has three minor pieces, for the price of his queen and a pawn, a roughly even trade, although I'm  1 in material count, the material is too imbalanced to say who is better here.
This move is better now that d5 has been played, and Black has no a-pawn to harass my bishop with.
Baker's idea to trade pieces to weaken my king's position was good, but my kingside attack is too fast.
After axb5, Black has Ra1  Kc2 Rxd1 Rxd1 and my attack is stalled, while Black has much more counterplay on the queenside, so I had to make a very important decision right now.
I ignore the piece and instead continue my attack, now leaving Baker with every single one of my minor pieces, at the price of only his queen.
Even though four minor pieces are almost always superior to a queen and a few pawns, Black isn't using his four pieces as attacking forces, while my queen has a lot of attacking potential.
black opts for Sicillian Defense...
Black opens a lane for his bB, protects the weak doubled pawn, and has brought his king-side N into the fray.
black cannot play 24....Rd7, hoping to win the N since 25.Qb8 has devastating effects - black cannot intercede with his R because d8 is controlled by the N!
black has 1 recourse, and white has sealed the victory.
Brilliant! <n> <n>wait for it.....
why i decided to post this game is this is a very Uncommon response i get to my opening which i think lead me to having a great game, since im used to playing vs the 3 most common/aggressive responses (d4 or nf5 or bb5 or even a rare Qf3)
i saw it as an opening to grab the middle bring my queen out and other knight and start rolling with 3 pieces developped over his a3 pawn
im always used to this kind of pressure and the defensive position hes adopted doesnt really allow him any development. im pretty sure opening his pawns at this stage is a weakening move
i decide to return to the previous state of game and see what his reply is.
by far i dont think this was it lol as the knight will continue his party. so rare i get to pawn hop undefended in a game with so many pieces left.
as for me ill just keep gaining time and opening the board, his reply here will affect if i can checkmate him or not
after this i saw alot of checkmates can you? hes got alot of moves he can do to gain time but i dont know if he can come out of it on top, all replies are always appreciated and theory craft. i tried creating a puzzle from this position it took forever so obviously there is many ways to survive but he could only keep falling apart but the checkmate could be stretched out more than 20 moves. <n><n>im wondering if there is a short way i didnt see in the puzzle (which i just gave up on to just come finish the game and see which move he would actually choose lo).  in this game it took the minimum amount moves too.
This was a rubber match against an opponent I had already lost a game to.  I have specialized in the Scandinavian, at about the club player level.  The Scandinavian, also known as the Centre Counter, gives Black the initiative on the first move.  YouTube has videos on the opening.
The signature move.  Black challenges White's e4 pawn, and one of the main lines goes exd, Qxd, and the Black Queen is vulnerable to attack.  I don't like this line and choose the "Modern Variation" which gambits the pawn.
The Modern Variation of the Scandinavian Defense.  Black gains a tempi in development as the White K pawn has moved twice and is now threatened with extinction.
This is the variation that I like least.  White could also try Nc3, Bb5 or Bc5 and c2-c4 in hopes of holding onto the pawn.  These usually give Black more initiative.  Here, White gives the pawn back and continues his development, also opening lines for the c1 Bishop.
This is what I don't like about this variation.  Black now loses a tempi, especially if the N retreats to f6.  The "book" recommends the following move by Black.
This check loses time because of the easy and natural defense.
e5 is a good outpost for the N, but it is supported by a backward pawn.  It also leaves its defensive post on f3 and encourages the following exchange.
This defense is too little, too late.
?? This is the move that loses the game for White. Black can now play 31...Bxd4+, capturing White's bishop, checking the king, and opening the e file to present a serious threat of checkmate. White has no good response to this. A much better move would have been. 31.Qd3.
The Swiss local plays the French defense. :-) Of course, there's no such opening, to the best of my knowledge, as the Swiss defense.
I remember playing games with my friend 20 years ago. He always did believe that a good attack is the best defense.
Black's Q-side attack has taken too long to develop. White's punch lands first.
Ignoring the danger on the other side.
The Scotch game.
This is a fun game, where we both queen a pawn, and end up with 4 queens on the board. It is also a bit of a mystery. I lose, but the post-game computer analysis (PMCA) doesn't highlight any mistakes by me. So where did a go wrong? Read through with me dear reader, and see if you can help me find out where I went wrong!
This is the main line.
This is the more modern move, previously 0-0 was usually played here.
She takes my rook.
I offer the exchange of queens. We now have a very level looking ending. Indeed PMCA gives this position as level. How she manages to turn this position into a winning position with just a few moves is almost a work of black magic! Where on earth did I go wrong?
She takes control of the b file.
But she takes too.
brigadecommander: this is the best game i have had in a long while. Just fun!!!
brigadecommander: Four 'ships of the line' on the battlefield.
She takes.
Up until now, it has been a standard Yugoslav Attack 9.Bc4 variation. This move is certainly not a great one, as the b and a pawns hardly ever join in Black's attack. Better was 9...Qa5
? A pointless move. Black should be mobilizing his Q-side.
Black resigned.
So far, nothing new.  White has disrupted Black's kingside pawns, and Black's counter will be ... 0-0-0, evacuating the king to the wide open spaces of the queenside.  As it turns out, this has consequences in the endgame.  We're following Leko-Timman, Wijk aan Zee 1995.
This prepares ... d5.
Still following Leko-Timman.  White has a slight pull because of Black's airy king position and his loose central pawns.  Black's next two moves try to turn these pawns into a weapon with a thematic ... d5 counter.
Black's last two moves have created tension in the center, and White should release it immediately with 18 exd5 Rxd5 19 Rxd5 exd5 20 Bxc8 Rxc8 21 Nf4, maintaining a small advantage because of Black's fragmented pawn structure and exposed king.  Instead, he takes aim at e6 and his pull evaporates.
Only the queens are left and the White queen has arrived on e5 with check.  After 31 ... Kb7 the game will still be dead even, with Black's central passed pawn balanced against White's secure king position, the exposed position of Black's king, and the possibility that White may create a passed pawn of his own on the either wing.   White, thinking he'd frittered away his advantage with 19 Nf4, offered a draw that Black refused.
Or 38 ... Qd1  39 Kb2 Qd6 40 h5 Qc6 41 Qd4 Qc7 42 g4 fxg4 43 Qxg4 Qe5  44 Ka2 Qf5.   Black has no real counter play because of his weak pawns on a6 and h7 and his unwillingness to exchange his e pawn.  If his queen strays too far, White either captures the e pawn or invades b6.  If Black pushes the f pawn, White's g pawn reaches g5.
Black finally manages to advance one of his central pawns, and it immediately lands him in a lost position because White's g and h pawns will advance much faster than Black's e and f pawns.  The best defence was 40 ... Qe5, forcing the exchange of either the g or h  pawn:  41 g5 (best) Qe1  42 Kb2 Qxh4 43 Qe3 Qe4 44 Qb6  Qb7 45 Qxe6 f4 46 Qd6  Qc7, with an advantage for White; or 41 Qd1 fxg4 42 Qxg4 Qe1  43 Kb2 Qe5  44Ka2 h6 45 Qb4 h5 46 Qf8  Kb7 with a slight edge for White.
Black can offer more resistance with 41 ... Qd2, since from d2 the queen threatens White's a pawn, defends the pawn on f4, and is ready to give check on e1.  Now 42 h5 can be met with 42 ...Qe1  43 Ka2 ( 43 Kb2 Qe5 ) Qxa5 , so White's best try seems to be 42 Qe4, attacking  the e6 and h7 pawns and preventing 42 ... Qe1 .  Since 42 ... Qxa5 43 Qxf4  is obviously bad for Black, he should once again opt for active counterplay with 42 ... Qd1  43 Kb2 f3.  The f pawn is now too far advanced for the White king to stop, so White is no longer able to seize control of the a1-h8 diagonal by interposing his queen on c3, and after an exchange of queens he'll lose the race to the queening square unless he can force h4-h5 without allowing the f pawn to advance.  White's best try is 44 Qf4  Kb7 45 Qf7 , when at least one of Black's pawns must fall with check:  45 ... Kb8 (45 ... Kc8 (or 45 ... Kc6) 46 Qex6  Kc7 47 Qb6  Kd7 48 Qa7  Ke6 49 Qxa6 ) 46 Qg8  Kc7 47 Qxh7  with a clear advantage.  Black now has two main choices, interposing the queen by 47 ... Qd7, or fleeing to d6.   After 47 ... Qd7 48 g6 f2  (other moves are too slow) 49 g7 f1Q 50 g8Q Qf6  51 Kb1 Qxh7 52 Qxh7  Kd6 53 h5 we have a position that illustrates the true nature of White's enduring superiority:  even after the "exchange" of passed pawns White's secure king position and outside passed pawn give him a winning advantage. 
44 Qf4  Kb7 45 Qf7 , when at least one of Black's pawns must fall with check:  45 ... Kb8 (45 ... Kc8 (or 45 ... Kc6) 46 Qex6  Kc7 47 Qb6  Kd7 48 Qa7  Ke6 49 Qxa6 ) 46 Qg8  Kc7 47 Qxh7  with a clear advantage.  Black now has two main choices, interposing the queen by 47 ... Qd7, or fleeing to d6.   After 47 ... Qd7 48 g6 f2  (other moves are too slow) 49 g7 f1Q 50 g8Q Qf6  51 Kb1 Qxh7 52 Qxh7  Kd6 53 h5 we have a position that illustrates the true nature of White's enduring superiority:  even after the "exchange" of passed pawns White's secure king position and outside passed pawn give him a winning advantage.  Black can't achieve perpetual check and he can't play 53 ... e5 because then 54 Qg6 forces the exchange of queens and 54 c4 forces a second passed pawn against which Black has no defence.  After 47 ... Kd6 48 Qa7 (Qh8 Kd7 49 Qf6) Qe2 49 Qd4  Ke7 50 Gf6  Kd7 51 g6 f2 52 g7 Qg4 53 Qf7  Kd6 54 g8Q Qxg8 55 Qxg8 f1Q Black has once again queened his f pawn only to find that White has a winning advantage because of his secure king and outside passed pawn.
Black can't achieve perpetual check and he can't play 53 ... e5 because then 54 Qg6 forces the exchange of queens and 54 c4 forces a second passed pawn against which Black has no defence.  After 47 ... Kd6 48 Qa7 (Qh8 Kd7 49 Qf6) Qe2 49 Qd4  Ke7 50 Gf6  Kd7 51 g6 f2 52 g7 Qg4 53 Qf7  Kd6 54 g8Q Qxg8 55 Qxg8 f1Q Black has once again queened his f pawn only to find that White has a winning advantage because of his secure king and outside passed pawn.
Scandinavian defense.
Whoa!  Black does well with c5, Bf5, even d4 or e6.  But moving the rook pawns so early in the game is generally considered wasteful.  I remember a strategy published in a chess magazine years ago called "crustacean," opening with rook pawns.  It doesn't help establish control over the center of the board very well, though.
This trade doesn't work out so well for white in terms of material--two pawns for one.
white is working on exposing black's left side
here it comes - white begins his attack
black is also beefing up left side for a potential attack
Team match, I'm playing black and begin with the Indian system.
Necessary. Does white see the hole in his own back yard?
Black is ahead by a pawn, two after this capture, why not trade queens and begin the material liquidation toward an easy endgame?
It seemed clever at the time. I didn't anticipate white's reply, though in hindsight, it seems obvious. I just figured he wouldn't let black take the d6 pawn so he would have to trade bishops.
OK, he can win the exchange back, so I'll just liberate him of his last remaining pawn.
king's pawn opening-B00
A bolt of lightning!  Suddenly half of black's pieces are permanently out of play.
I decided to make this pawn trade to gain a passed pawn.
?? And here my opponent was in deep time trouble from defending such a difficult position.  Correct was ...c5 or ...Nc7.  Interesting is ...Nxd4, and after Rxf6 Qxf6 cxd4 Qxd4, black has only one pawn for the piece, but suddenly it is white who has inactive pieces and no real play.
Development is numerically equal (ie 3 pieces out and castled) but White's position looks much less cramped, so I'd assess this in White's favour.
This square is frequently a good one for White against various Sicilian variations.  In this case, it immediately threatens to win the undefended f-pawn.  On the other hand, it is hanging and Black can reveal an attack on it at any time.
? Black fails to see how vulnerable the Nb4 is.  In the lead-up to playing this move I had played with the idea of sacrificing the knight on c7 but concluded that it didn't work.  This was supposed to be a more conservative build up move.
Black gives up hope of establishing an over-powering attack on the c-file and seeks alternative lines of attack.  The immediate threat is ...Bxa3
However, I moved the queen to defend e3.<n>Alternative variation: 10.Bxh7+ Kxh7 11.Ng5+ Kg8 12.Qxg4  [This variation wins the h7 pawn, but moves away from the spirit of the original game.]  12...Qf6 13.e4
engines suggest now a beautiful move: Rh8, followed by a munching of black pieces or/and mate. Make sure you check out the variation.
Alternative variation: 20.Rh8+ Kf7 ( 20...Kxh8  [Taking the rook leads to a quick mate.]  21.Qh5+ Kg8 22.Bh7+ Kh8 23.Bg6+ Kg8 24.Qh7# ) 21.Qh5+ g6 22.Bxg6+ Nxg6 23.Qh7+ Ke8 24.Qxg6+ Kd8 25.Rxf8+ Nxf8 26.Qf6+ Ke8 27.Nf3 [Try this variation on a chess engine to see it to the end. White is only one pawn up, but it is a passed one. The king is safe as well.]
This seems to be a good place for the knight, however black gets an etch on development, and white obviously has abandoned his plan to occupy e5.
I did not enjoy this move, since it blocks my bishop. White's attack is showing effect. <n>e6 is a somewhat two edged sword for black in the Pirc. It can, combined with c5, help to break through... but it can also lead to a weakened king safety and unfavorable pawn structures for black.
Black responds with the Sicilian Defence.
Black has no chance now.
Materially down two points, Chessmaster picked up his first win of the tournament. While it was a very dominant game by White, Chess Titans certainly lasted a lot longer than what most would have expected. A very pleasing game. If you wish to leave me a suggestion for an annotated game, or want to leave me feedback, please drop me a message. Your help is appreciated.
Black has an exposed king
Black resigned, only move is 22. ...Ke7, and 23. Qe6# is the end. Magics went wrong this game the whole time.
I played this move knowing that my opponent was going to play the Sicilian! I know this because "goldaxe2006" is one of my friends in real life...not just on gameknot. The bad thing is...he knows 25 moves of Theory for the Dragon...
Alas! Dragon it is!
f3! A very common move in the Sicilian Dragon. f3 supports the e pawn which can come under massive threats in the next couple of moves, it also allows White the option of playing g4!? after he has developed his Queen to d2 and castled Queen-Side. The variation where g4!? is played is known as the "Yugoslav Attack" and I believe it is very effective for White.
In the Sicilian Dragon, White aims to attack on the King-Side whereas Black will always try to attack on the Queen-Side - This can lead to some very entertaining play and lots of games end in a quick finish. Bd7 portrays Black's ideas of attacking on the Queen-Side as it allows moves such as Rac8(etc).
g4! I have been preparing this for several moves...You can see how White has a commanding lead on the King-Side!!
Black knows this line well out of experience so he counters with h5.
instead of playing g5 which leads to Nh7 and my attack on the King-Side is thwarted, I chose to play the novelty of gxh5! Not only does this open up my position slightly but it leaves my opponent bewildered. Goldaxe2006 knows lots of Theory on this line so this novelty left him wondering what to do.
Rg1, in my view is a strong,logical move as it prevents dangerous advances of the f-pawn at a later stage.
Black immediately attacks on the Queen-Side, typical of Black in the Sicilian Dragon.
In exchanging the pieces, I believed that my position was a little superior to my opponent's.
Black tries to attack my Queen-Side pawns...A fair enough reply from Black.
Black now has the option of Ba4 but after Rd3, White has a better position and is threatening to reak havoc on Black's Position.
Black accepts my offer of exchanging.
In taking back the Rook, I believe that I have gained a superior position. Hopefully, my 2 king side pawns will be able to contain his doubled f-pawns and his g pawn while my 3 Queen-side pawns can create a passed pawn out of my opponent's 2 Queen-Side pawns. White has at least a draw here(assuming he plays at least half sensibly).
Rh8! Is a good move from Black, it aims to bring the black Rook into the game, despite his efforts...their is not much Black can hope for here(other than a draw).
Ke3! I chose to bring my King into the game for the end-game, this game is White's to be won!
As you can see, Black's last 4 or 5 moves have not done anything at all, they are basically accepting a draw in the position. Most players would accept a draw here as White but you should ALWAYS play for the win if the draw is in the bag...White has quite strong winning chances if he plays well here.
Rb1.. a passive move...forcing me to swap off the a pawn for the c pawn! This is quite good for me though as a Rook on the c-file cuts the King off from getting to the passed B Pawn! White's chances of winning look very good now!
I saw this coming...
If Black takes the F-Pawn it is basically game over but to be fair, It is probably won for White now anyway.
b5.......Black resigns now, the b pawn is going to promote and force Black to give up his Rook and White will be able to win easily.<n><n>All in all, White's 2 King-Side pawns managed to contain Black's doubled f pawns and his g-pawn while my Queen-Side pawns were allowed to promote. A very well played game by White!
So, heres an exciting game which i played against campeon. White wins blacks queen at the beginning , and soon after sacs a piece for a fierce attack on black. This is how it went down. I start with my usual d4.
Blacks king side is torn apart and white is readh bring reinforcements in to the attack
Return match against blitzkov. Unfortunately for me, it wasn't a fine demostration form my side.
Two pieces out for a central pawn... hardly a bargain, but let's see.
My battery is armed. It's not a very whorty one, but with the bishop and the kinght, conditions for attack are given.
This was the wrong one. I feared a counter attack by white with b3, opening the queenside, thus moving the game on the side of the castled king. But I shouldn't. You'll see why.
...but remember: avoid to exchange piece when you have superior developement, or you'll easily lose it. This way, white owns a very nice diagonal, and supports the lethal d5. I had to act quickly, or the game will return to be even. So I dared, pretty irresponsibly...
If d5, fxB, dxB, exNf3, exNd7, Bxh2+, and black has a winning attack. But I overlooked the simple 14. Bxb2!, QxB, RxBe6 (who has became undefended when the f pawn was moved!). Instead, the more normal and calm Nf6 leads to 14. d5, Bd7. White has blocked his good white diagonal, and he has to retire or exchange his lsb. It was not a bad result for me. So I played with enthusiasm more than calculation, and this is a very common mistake at chess.
Is was a mistake, but it was hard to see compensation in Qe7. It was in the fact that white has, as a minimum Qd5+, and if black covers the check with the rook, to avoid a subsequent BxRh7+, now, in h6, the queen doesn't help to the defence of f7, as it does in e7. so QxR becomes possible for white. So this was a mistake.
Good morning all. This game is currently unfinished. but the board finds itself in a fun position being a bit of material down. but having good queen side pressure i believe. <n><n>all comments are appreciated.
my opponent is a d4 starter. and I've been practicing the Budapest counter for d4, here begins my 6th game with this start,
and so i take back. in another game here i tried more development before recapturing like nc6. it lead to a tangled fight and took a while to get back the material and that game isnt over heading into 40ish moves i believe.<n><n>i also tried leaving the opponent the pawn edge playing d6 in another game to induce fxd6 to reply Bxf6 but that also lead to a tangled game,<n><n>and so this third game is why i go with the immediate retake,
hinders the DSBs check development and possible double pawn tactic on the c file
offer a pawn exchange and the c file would become a nice file for my DSB was my thought behind this move. i was also going to push queen side. i didnt think he would push by putting 2 pawns in front of his LSB's diagonal. but i may be wrong
and so i allow the LSB development
anticipated reply.
anticipated reply. im also thinking his castle is coming next
This is a bit of a gamble as it uses time, but using time allows white to examine the black pawn structure before permanently setting his own.
And White is faced with a choice.  Nd5 or Ne2.  Nd5 is routinely played, but it results in trading the knight for black's blockaded bishop.  The center is firmly locked down which allows a kingside assault in certain circumstances.
How would you assess this position?  I would say white stands ever so slightly better despite black's material advantage.
Even though I am down on material this suddenly feels more winning.  When I see an oppenent play the same move, a part of me always thinks he could find no improvement and is willing to settle for a draw.
The h pawn is ultimately, now or later, lost.  This only exchanges pawns on an ending that does not clearly favor black.  Better is a5.  I think that over the last several moves black has failed to improve his position.  His king is very nearly trapped, and the bishop controls as few squares as possible.  The rook, tied to the h pawn defense, does not exert influence.
If Kxh5, then Rg3 and suddenly black's game has life.
Same idea for black, but it takes longer to accomplish.
Tough game for black here.
I played as Black in this unrated game against one of my teammates whom I found to be a strong 1700  player.  In the game, Black plays an interesting 9th move which defines a good portion of the game.  Late in the game, Black blunders away a winning position and with a second blunder loses the chance to draw.  The credit really goes to White though who played a nearly flawless game.
f5!? This, to me, is one of the defining moves of the game, intended to shut down the attack along the b1-h7 diagonal.  Yet, as my opponent pointed out to me after the game, g6 was probably objectively better as this weakens the a2-g8 diagonal which becomes a thorn in my side.
Good, but it only delays the assault
Winning the exchange, but at a high positional price.  I think this is still the best move though.
The Scotch. An opening I had little experience with but played with my initiative.
This gave me flexibility and meant all my minor pieces were developed and I could castle either side
I castled king side hoping to attack the e-pawn with f5 in a few moves time and so Half open the f-file for my Rook and with No light squared bishop it means my king will still be safe.
He wanted to involvve his king but however I could know trap his king on the queen side with a pawn storm.
King's pawn opening.  Sicilian Defense.  Nimzovich-Rossolimo attack.  Constructive comments are welcome and encouraged.  I am always looking to improve my game.
Black begins an attack on white's queen-side pawns.
5...P-N3 wouldn't help much... though it would have stopped the immediate checkmate. [5...P-N3 6 QxKP ch followed by 7 QxR would have supplied me with a winning material advantage.]
Black takes White's pawn and puts the question back to him: reclaim your lost pawn!
Double attack on his bishop and his e pawn. I gain a tempo in development
I gain an extra tempo and free up the pin with this move. I am resigned to losing my d5 pawn... My only consolation would be still having my 2 bishops
My queen goes on the prowl and provide extra support for my very loved and cared for e pawn. Funny how a pawn can become a centre of a few moves
White is on the march to reclaim his lost pawn. I personally do not like having my rook wandering unaccompanied around the board. They are so clunky and work best as rear protectors in the middle game and battle tanks in the end game. But that's just me. Anyhow, White has a good unprotectable attack on my c5 pawn and subsequent pressure on c7 pawn
His queen is off with check
My bishop is off the board and White has finally an open diagonal to my king, with check. But I have a passed pawn...
Here's the description from my mini-tournament, which starts with the moves 1. e4 c5 2. d4!?<n><n>Ken Smith played this opening a lot... 1. e4 c5 2. d4!?, which has a lot of interesting variations that aren't normally seen here on gameknot or anywhere, for that matter. One time Bent Larsen was annotating a game where Smith's opponent played the French Defense, and the annotations went: 1. e4 e6? (Better is 1... c5!, which wins a pawn)
The first move actually made in the game -- an obvious and natural one, too.  This is a regular sicilian thus far, with just a different move order.
Black decides against e5, and gives me the option to turn this into a standard sicilian game with 4. Nxd4.
I approve of this move, since allowing 5. cxd4 allows white to hit back in the center and regain his pawn -- this is black's best shot for an edge.
Totally consistent.  Black is nearly caught up in development, and I can see that after b5 and Bb7, he'll have his development nearly completed, and all I'll have to show for my pawn is a space advantage.  At this point, I realized I was going to have to turn up the pressure if I wanted to get a (hopefully winning) attack going!
...and now black, although cramped, has a good, solid game, and it looks like I don't have enough for the pawn.
In hindsight, the Rc1 move earlier did keep the black queen off of c7, so maybe it did serve a purpose.  Still, had I known, I could've achieved this configuration a move earlier.  It's silly to harp on it now, but the reason I'm critical of it is that when you're ahead in development, you want to make every move count!  If black catches up in development, then I've got nothing to show for the pawn.  At least I have more space.
Parries the threat while keeping the battery on the d-file.
This grabs me another pawn, and after Nxd6 Qxd6, I'll have a knight and pawn for my rook, plus a very threatening position.
And this is as planned.  Now, I was hoping for Qxe3  here, which looks good for black, but after, say, 30. Kh1 Qxc3, 31. Qf8 is checkmate!  So, there's a lot going on in this position, despite the exchange of some pieces.
I don't know whether to hope for Bxd5 or not!  While exchanges will help black in an endgame, I'm not sure he wants to grant me a passed pawn on d5, especially with his king all the way in the corner.
?  Black doesn't want the exchange?  I realize there are a lot of complications here, but after Qxe6 33. Nxe6, I don't really have a great feeling about my endgame chances with two knights vs. rook and bishop.  The c-file is a nice place for the rook to roost, but I see now that a knight on e7 would be pretty for me!
???  Whoa, after all of black's great defense, this move is suicide.
1-0.  Thanks to bleddy71 for one of the most fun games I've played in a long time.  I realize the game wasn't played perfectly by either of us, but it was a lot of fun and it had an amazing ending for me!
I took the queen with my g pawn.  Now I found out who was going to lose their queen.  However this has given me doubled pawns on my h file which obviously means I cannot safely cast on the king side.  I don't think I would have chosen to take the queen in this position but if I get a chance to take a queen then I would mostly likely do so.
So rook takes my a7 pawn and checks the king.
My king was only able to move along the row so I moved my c pawn waiting for the inevitable checkmate. <n><n> (In this game I think I got to put up a bit of a fight compared to my last game with easy19 but I should have as I did have a queen and he didn't.  <n><n>1) Try not to create an outpost for your opponent to put their pieces.<n>2) I think I missed a chance on move 15.  Instead of castling I should have moved my b knight to d5 ready to take on the knight and there would have been a bit of a fight.  The only thing is then my king would have been in the middle. )
A coaching game.
The Four Knigkts' Game. Usually remains very symmetrical.
d4 is the usual move. All opening books recommend pushing the centre pawns whenever it is possible to retain the alleged advantage of white making the first move. But this is certainly not a mistake.
I try taking the pawn, even though I think in retrospect it is not such a good move.
Unless I'm missing something, this is not so good for black.
A blunder. By exchanging knights and bishops, white would have left black with a terrible pawn structure. How is it possible to make an error like this one? Of course, white obviously played too fast. But another explanation can be this: it is very easy to overlook a threat when it is not directly a consequence of the piece actually played. Black played his bishop on move 7. The bishop does not threaten anything. So it is quite possible when one plays fast to overlook that the black knight on c6 is now unpinned, and can now take the white knight. One must always try to consider not just the piece that has moved, but also how this movement affects the dynamics of the other pieces on the board.
Black could also have exchanged bishops (when you're ahead in material, exchanging pieces is good, but this is true mostly if you're being threatened).
I had a little trap prepared (winning a pawn) if white played pxp here. See if you can find it. The solution at the end of the game.
Why this move? It develops a piece. But the real reason is that the rook is now on the same column as the white queen! While this may seem a bit wild for a reason (there are now 4 pieces between the rook and the queen), it is surprising how fast sometimes pieces can get out of the way and all of a sudden, the rook can take the queen!!
Gold starts with the Sicilian Defence. This defence gives best results for Black but if Fevil plays properly, then he stands a chance. <n><n>Personally, nowadays I do not usually play 1. ... e5 as after 2. Nf3 Nc6 3. d4!? leaves me in confusion facing the Scotch Opening (as you will see on the next slide and on my annotation after my next annotation, 'The Brick Wall'). The only correct move would've been 3. ... exd4 but after 4. c3 things get awkward. <n><n>Opening with 1. c5 can get Black several options to attack and counterattack.
Fevil lunges into the centre. Gold lunges into a pot of boiling water. His knight has lost his potential home. "The d-pawn must be removed!"
Now for a bit of developing and describing. Look at this...<n><n>The knight on c3 is the only one out and about for white, but he's staring at his own pawns. The bishop on e2 has fallen off the sofa, and all the rest of the pieces are still sleeping in bed, waiting for the alarm clock to ring on move 10 (with the exception of the d & e-pawns, who've set off yesterday for late 'knight' hunting. Don't worry, it's just a joke)<n><n>For Black, the bishop on f8 is just about to come out, and so is the bishop on c8! That leaves just the major pieces snoozing, though. They're the wrinklies, but Gold's a winner!
Black's king has shuffled into safety. Gold's in a good position but THWACK! He's forgot something! His LSB is still doing backflips in his swimming pool, located in the hall of Black's queenside castle. Time to get a towel...
This is getting frightening for Fevil! Even though Gold has still has a LSB in the changing room, Black shall simply be a rook up at least! So does Fevil stand a chance?
The bishop belongs at g7 when the queens are still on the board. I mean, it might get stuck on the rim forever in this game!
Black hopes to capture the pinned f-pawn with check. This is the first castle attack for Black!<n><n>Now, let's stop for a development break. It look like White is behind in development, as no pieces have got past the second rank, and they have not yet been centralized. I'M TALKING ABOUT YOU, B1 ROOK! + They have no plan yet.<n><n>Black should centralize his rooks and probably get his LSB into the game a bit further.
?! White marches ahead with his pawns. Trouble is, they are on the kingside, but anyway, Black has still not got enough pieces to attack, though, or has he?
Gold does not bother with the exchange of queens, but carries on the threat. Fevil is very unhappy.
Unfortunately, it does. "Too much sugar" complains Andrew Gold. But this move does have it's positive effects...
Black wins a pawn and threatens to promote to a queen. What a waste of exchanging queens, Fevil.
! This stops the promotion of the pawn but it doesn't work that well...
!! And the poor white rook finds it cannot move anyway without being captured, so it sacrifices itself for a pawn. What a beautiful net ...
And out of all the 48 moves so far, Black final gets a rook into the game. White is helpless. There are so many ways of mating, Fevil waits impatiently for the game to finish with a sad checkmate...
This game is a well fought game with some interesting ideas on initiative and tempo. The endgame is also quite interesting.
Once I read that this 2.Nf3 is called the 'Russian game'<n>In any case, it is a good move as Black is almost obliged to defend the pawn (unless he plays 2...Nf6, the Petroff defence)
White plays the Italian Game, this has a general tendency to turn into a 'open' type of game, with either one or both sets of central pawns exchanged.
The immediate development of the knight is called the 'Two Knights Game'.<n>It is VERY sharp and theoretical and so is not to everyones taste, it certainly does not appeal to me playing this move as Black unless you are very well prepared.<n>If you are well prepared, it is EXCELLENT!
Black threatens the Bishop on c4 and the pawn on e4.<n>This move is practically forced, and is a very familiar theme in the 'Two knights defense'.
Black defends the knight.<n>This is a very good move. Black recognises the danger and retreats his queen back.<n>It is not such a great loss of time as one would expect, as he threatens to exchange on c4.
White decides to develop a piece, and try and gain a time and initiative advantage.<n>Also possible was Bb3, this saves the two bishops but gives up a tempo.
Blacks game is not particularly easy to play.<n>I like the idea of playing to exchange the queens and then giving back the pawn on c7 to gain time.<n>White has a long term problem with his h1 rook to develop, and if Black adopts this plan it looks promising.<n>e.g.<n>11...Qc5! <n>12. Qxc5? (Nd2! is  probably better) 12...Bxc5
Black decides to take with the pawn. If he can keep the two centre pawns, Black will have a very superior centre position.<n>I think overall Black has the better game here.
White develops his last minor piece.<n>Qxd4 is far too dangerous, as the Black rook will come to the d line very strongly with a gain of time on the White queen. This move should be avoided immdiately.<n>White threatens Re1 with a strong attack against the e6 pawn.
Black develops and also gains time with a threat against the White queen
White takes a pawn and makes a threat against the Black rook.
Black moves the knight to safety.<n>It is time to evaluate the position!<n>Material - equal.<n>King safety - Blacks king is safe. Whites king is less safe, but not critically.<n>Activity - All Blacks pieces are active. White has a problem piece of the rook on h1.<n>Other features - Black has a isolated pawn on e6, but this is not important at present as it is difficult to take advantage of and helps Blacks centre control.<n>Conclusion: BLACK IS BETTER
White exchanges a set of rooks.<n>With each exchange Whites game improves, as the isolated e5 pawn is becoming a serious weakness and the White kingside pawn numerical advantage is increasingly important and the Black king is far away on the Queenside.
White improves the rook position, and has a positional threat of  pawn to g4.
Black improves his king position.
White recaptures the pawn.<n>White has a large advantage with the connected passed pawns.
White takes the pawn.
Black takes the rook.
Exchange of pieces.
It is the right of the better developed side to open lines and attack, so this move is a positional blunder. Black would be better to keep the position closed and try to catch up in development.
Positionally, this game is almost over. White has a huge lead in development, is up a pawn, and black's king is still trapped in the center.
Moving a piece a second time when there are still pieces waiting to be developed is a violation of opening principles, and this is therefore a bad move. It does attempt to remove the defender of the c5 knight, so that if white overlooks this transparent threat, black could theoretically win a piece with ...Nxe3 followed by ...Qxc5. But white has numerous ways to defend this "threat", such as Nb3, Qd2, Qe2, or even Bd4. Notice that black is attacking the e5 pawn twice and it is only defended once, so black can win that pawn, but if I were white I would sacrifice it and play Nb3 looking for a sequence like:<n>12. Nb3 Nxe5<n>13. Nxe5 Qxe5<n>14. Re1<n>and the black queen is going to have trouble finding a safe place to get out of the discovered check. For example, 14...Qc7 loses to 15. Bf4 .
Black is continuing to improve his position, although white is probably still better with his passed e pawn.
Eyeing the d5 pawn, which is a weakness of black's position.
White refuses to accept the gift and offers his opponent a chance to win the exchange with ...Nxf1! Argh!!
White loses the thread of the game completely and gives away one of his connected passed pawns.
But black successfully blockades the passer and can win it at his leisure.
Protecting the pawn to allow the rook to head for e8, but this is too slow and black will have plenty of time to counter. For example, ...Qc7 puts a second attacker on the d pawn and freezes both white pieces in their tracks.
But this is unexpected. Perhaps black was hoping white would blunder with:<n>34. gxf3 Qxd1 <n>but really I have no explanation for this move.
But black doesn't find ...Qe6. Is he thinking of a pawn storm to destroy the pawn wall in front of the white king?
But instead, black gives a check. What does he have in mind? I don't know, but I am anxious to find out.
This king maneuver is totally unnecessary, but black is so far ahead that he can win with almost any sequence. And this turns out to be a winning sequence. Long, slow, messy, but winning.
Even though it leaves him with a losing Q vs. R ending, this does win material, and is the best white has.
Which he doesn't find. The text defends the g pawn and attacks the a pawn, but misses ...Qh7  forking the rook. In a Q vs. R ending it is very difficult for the rook to stay active and avoid getting forked at the same time.
And now the position we should have been at, but white has lost a tempo.
And this transposing of moves ruins the game. By letting the exchange happen on e5, white lets black queen with check.
And the g pawn is skewered, losing the game for white. 0-1
White obviously does not see the danger and his imminent doom. He still thinks he has an attack.
Isn't it fun playing with the Black pieces? You have to defend for 99% of the game and your attack comes in the last 1%.
This was a first try for me with the Traxler counter attack. This is definitely a risky 'all or nothing' opening for black, but one gives a lively and enjoyable alternative to quieter and more strategic openings.
Black ignores the threat and sets up an attack of his own.
i feel like I have lost my position, and can see no real way of continuing the attack. So I try one last throw of the dice.
I'm not a great annotator, so I won't make too many notes; you can judge it for yourself.<n>I play white.
why not Qxg4  ? why did my opponent wait two turns?
this is exactly the exesive trust in the queen that lost the game for my opponent.
You have to admit, my opponent played out this position very well.
Is this rook sac really sound? In this game my opponent sacrificed a rook early on. Although black seems to not have enough compensation, I was unable to find a way to consolidate and lost quickly. Has anyone seen this sacrifice before? Also - where did I go wrong? The post-match computer analysis doesn't record any mistake by me until the last few moves, when it is clearly lost for me - although it claims - perhaps wrongly - that the sacrifice was a mistake. Your comments would be most welcome!
I continue with the most commonly played move
And I continue with the most commonly played move.
This is a quirky, rarely played move. Someone played it as white against me. In the first game I met it, I lost, and I adopted it for a while, and enjoyed some successes with it. I am not sure that I would still play it against an equally rated opponent. My opponent was then rated about 1600, and I played it in a "give him a chance" frame of mind. Perhaps my lose can be traced to this move?
This is the best reply, which has scored well for black.
pxd5 seems to transpose into the normal exchange variation of the Grunfeld, where f3 is not normally played. dxc5 scores better in the Gameknot opening databases.
But he did take on c5. The post-game computer of Gameknot records this as a mistake, and gives white an advantage of +2.2 now.
Post-match computer gives this as a mistake, leading to an advantage of just 0.01 for Black, instead of Ne3 maintaining the adavantage of 1.88. I think this view is questionable!
And I resigned. Your comments would be most welcome, and please don't forget to rate this annotation!
The following is an interesting encounter in the Queen's Indian. White abandons his natural central play (e3-e4) to contest Black along the a1-h8 diagonal. This is a clear instance of White becoming too "caught up" with one-move attacks and countering Black's plans while losing sight of his own ideas.
From this basic position, Black has many popular options. 3...b6 enters the Queen's Indian Defense, 3...d5 is the Queen's Gambit, 3...Bb4  is the Bogo-Indian, and the text move 3...c5 allows White to enter the Modern Benoni with 4.d5.
'!?' - Avoiding an isolated queen's pawn position (not necessarily bad!) after ..exd5 and exchanging bishops. Black reasons that White's kingside light squares are weaker than his queenside ones, and in any event the trading of pieces favors his cramped position.
'?' - Much stronger is ..Nxe5!, when Black simply wins a pawn for nothing. Black's idea is to trap one of the White knights, but he loses sight of the significance along the light squares. Now White is back in the game (if he finds the right moves!)
sicillian defense
The sicillian defense. THis could turn into the accelerated draaagon.
Time wasting- stalling move.
White has yet to developed any pieces besides pawns
?White takes the Knight with LSB and puts black in check. This is a weak move, this is whites only developed piece and now is trading with the knight?
pawn takes LSB.
queen takes pawn and puts king in check.
white pawn takes LSB.
Queen to f1  check mate!<n>I didn't know this game was filled with so many blunders! End result is Black won!
Black has to take, or the queen is lost. If QxR, Rg8+! and black has only NxR, QxQ+, Ke7, and white will grab some other black pawn for a difficult but probably winning endgame. But if black takes with the knight...
Material is only +1, but white dominates the board, with two joined free pawns. It's a matter of time. I hope you enjoyed the trick position, and please feel free to correct my mistakes an analysis!
Philidor counterattacks with verve.
Philidor hastens to begin his own development and consolidate his position.
I must be missing something here. Why is 9 PxQ a bad move? I can't imagine Atwood overlooking it, or Philidor missing it when he played his previous move.
Hi everyone!<n><n>Here is Part 2.  I am taking part in a mini-tournament called Memoralis.  I find myself under the cosh in the middlegame but somehow my opponent does not make the best moves and I end up bailing out into a 2 knight v R + 2 pawn ending.  Looks favourable to the side with the rook and 2 pawns, but somehow my horsies won the day.  As a rare experiment (very rare in a rated game) I try the Caro-Kann Defense.  That is 1. e4 c6.
4. Nxe4 - pawn trade.
!? Getting in this pawn advance is one of blacks key ideas in this opening, usually it's purpose involves getting a knight to the d3 which isn't the case here since white has still not moved the e pawn. However this advance often has dynamic purposes and sometimes aims to free the c5 square for the pieces. I couldn't help but feeling this was too soon, but every line I looked at seemed promising, so I just played it. The purpose is to get the queen to c5 which hits f2 and by initiating contact between the pawns I'm sure to induce a weakness, also I'm now hitting d5
During the game I thought this would lead to all sorts of trouble for white, however it turns out to probably be best.
My pieces are a little tied up, but everything is hanging together.
Russian defence. This is not my preferred opening
watch out!!! Two passed pawn
??  here is all the game! an hopless trade
?? very weak move! gives black the chance to get the f white pawn, but i can't see a reasonable move
!!this move guaranties white pawn promotion
Queen side has some gaps among the Pawns. So, White pieces can attack.
Black side observed it and may be get ready for it.
See the attack !
Another Pawn was earned. Black side can recover it. Watch for it.
Black side lost a Knight.
White side has no option other than to push the only Pawn.<n>So, Queen will land at a7 quickly and conquer the game .
Another game form this project vs the tournament mastermind himself.  I feel that this game has a rather important theme to it, because not have I fallen for it but I believe that many of my fellow chess players have as well.  When attacking it is important to consider the safety of ones own king.  Don't rush forward at all cost.  Also, goes with the theme to play patiently even when far down in material.
I find this move to be the most logical follow up and probably will end up being the main line during this tournament.  It takes advantage of blacks g7 move early in this game.
This odd looking move has a threat of b4 along with unpinning the b2 pawn.
2. ........ Nf6 - this is the Petrov's defense.  Some say it does have a high percentage of draws but for the unwary like myself it does not always work out that way.  The purpose of the Petrov is to counterattack my e pawn.  I decide to defend it by playing 3. Nc3 - this is called the Petrov's 3 knights - but how sound is it?
8. dxe4! Just in time!
39. Rd7 - I continue to attack but unfortunately after black moves his pawn to c5 the rook has nothing to attack - at the moment.  It does however confine his king to the back rank.  Normally a rook on your opponent's seventh rank is called "a bone in the throat".
46.... h3 - strange, I expected black to take on h2 with his rook.  He will do this next move however.  In the meantime me and my rook decide to liquidate black's queenside pawns and get a passer of my own.  It seems to be another Battle of the Wings Part 2, only this time my passer never gets to leave the second rank, black's passer is on the 7th at the end!
April this year must have been a sad day for all annotators, Slockster stopped annotating games and gradually the world of annotating lost its low form of humour, but now he's back and he's not alone, for this annotation SLockster has required the help of his dear friend King Leonidas for his 100th win on gameknot, a great celebration
standard reply at my level of chess
I'll have that if you don't mind,
then we shall fight in the shade," I did this to prevent Bg4, it was already getting crowded..hang on.I'm sure I know a metaphor about this Oh yeah," Hotshowers dispatches his monsters from half the world away. They're clumsy beasts, and the piled Persian dead are slippery" its abot to get "slipprier" ,no "slippier", no "more slippy" Oh forget it
Offering of a draw. "You are generous as you are divine, O king of retreat. Such an offer only a madman would refuse. But the, uh, the idea of kneeling, it's- You see, slaughtering all those men of yours has, uh, well it's left a nasty cramp in my leg, so kneeling will be hard for me".
Those behind cry, "FORWARD!" Those in front cry, "BACK!" no real value, thought I'd slip it in for old time's sake, I'll regain that rook while I'm at it
this is effectively the final part of the game, from now on its checks to checkmate all the way
Our ancestors built this wall using ancient stones from the bosom of Greece herself. And with a little Spartan help, your Persian scouts supplied the mortar.
moving in for the kill, suitable quote for this point, ahh yes,"The old ones say we Slocksters are descended from Hercules himself. Bold Leonidas gives testament to our bloodline. His roar is long and loud
I've picked this game for annotation because it resulted in an improbable victory from a near impossible position - (at one stage I was down 2 knights, 1 bishop, 1 rook and 4 pawns and had only captured a single pawn in return)<n><n>Tolemac has subsequently thrashed me in every game since.
A surprising move... as it gives me a target (it did however free blacks rook for a potential attack on the E file)
Don't you just love "en passant" ... at least when it suits you
As expected my rook is lost
With the Knight lost black is desperate to try and get a checkmate
The english opening.This is an experiment for me since I never play this opening.
The symmetrical variation.also good is 1...Nf6 and 1...e5
Development is even.
opening the center.
?! this move is debatable.
opening the c-file for myself
This is a training game for a teammate in Kingslayers.  Please add your comments so we can all learn together.
Standard development.  Aids the d pawn.
finishing my development
Decision time for White...
This move is the clincher, as it will allow my king to get into the game and force an unfavorable trade on White.  All in all, not too bad a game for a new player.  Thank you for your comments and suggestions.
in this game I struggled for a space advantage in the centre and slowly profited from my opponent inaccuracies until I was able to win a pawn, and create a passed pawn
Qc2 is also possible, any other thematic move h4, f4, for this line lead to an equal game for black
The Sicilian -- Van Geemen prepares for hand-to-hand combat.
Guarding the QBP and opening a second diagonal for his Q.
This shot wins a piece. If 9 QxN, 9... B-B4 pins and wins the White Queen. So Wiesenhahn resigns.
King's pawn Lopez opening.
I attack White with an usual development move.
Good news and bad news. Good news: Developement of a minor piece (finally); Bad news: Blocks in his other bishop. Apparently, White's light-squared Bishop is his most powerful minor piece.
I wonder why he castled in a very unsafe shelter? This is probably how White messed up his game.
I predicted this move.
I abhorred this move once I saw how it affected me.
22.Nfd2 is riskier than this move.
A very frantic game indeed.
And we here folks, have a closed Ruy-Lopez: steinitz-like variation!
A good one for white in this scheme.
This is the best part of a "my" Scandinavian.
White takes the bait!
But it doesn't work.
Or Qxb2+. But black is confident the game is won.
After Kmoves, black has plenty of ways to further exchange material and win, so my opponent resigned.
Ok I'll play the waiting game and see how white wants to progress with his d4 opening.
I'll carry on with a King's Indian sort of defense, no offence but against a Paleface gambit in retrospect it seemed rather appropriate.
So I'll exchange off, double the pawns at least for a brief moment.
My opponent annotates a large number of games and I would be interested to see what he thought of this as I have enjoyed a number of his annotations.
The tarrasch. I played this on the grounds it's the variation i least like to play against when I am black in a french. It will never refute the french but it can be very hard to create counterplay against it.
I am playing for the so-called "Universal system": I don't know any theory so I just develop my pieces on natural squares and hope for the best!<n> 4. c3 e5 5. dxe5 Nxe5 6. Ngf3 Nxf3  7. Nxf3 Nf6 With a slight plus for white according to Fritz, but with the e5 break obtained and even development, it feels pretty level to me. Given that 3...Nc6 presumably aims for a quick ...e6-e5 it feels wrong to let black get it in so quickly.
This just felt ok: I was completely out of book, and after this game I left wondering if I am better just playing chess than studying theory - I liked my position and I had to play moves based on my assessment of the position, giving me a deeper feel for it cf learned theory.
Black pressures d4, what will become the base of white's pawn-chain to gain time for development. White can either organise a king-side attack or play down the c-file if it is opened.
Obligatory really, but it's nothing to worry about as I cannot see how black can utilise the outpost on b4.
21... Nd6 22. Bxc6 Bxc6 23. Nc5 With a plus for white after 23...Nc4 or 23...Nf5 - Black has counterplay compared with the game, making this arguably a better continuation.
22... Nxf3  23. Nxf3 Bxc6 24. Nc5 Bxc5 25. dxc5 Qxb2 26. Bd4 Qb4 27. Rb1 Qc4 28. Ne5 Qa6 29. Qg4 With an overwhelming position for white. Noteworthy is how fast black goes downhill.<n><n>22... bxc6 23. Nc5 Is pretty much the game continuation.
Alternative variation: 23... Qxb2 24. Rb1 Qa2 25. Re2 And black will have to shed material to rescue the queen.
This is a possible continuation had black played on.
Hi everyone!<n><n>I see you all enjoyed my game against Expert X in which Henry got entombed on the kingside.  That is really something!  I'd much rather not be on the receiving end of such a mating attack but it was certainly fascinating and awesome to watch.  Anyhow, I do get a huge slice of consolation for my loss - another Expert Draw, courtesy of Operation Joblock.  Dave, my opponent is a very strong player and his rating was only 25 points shy of Masterdom when we agreed that draw, so I was really, really chuffed to keep him out!  So how did this happen?  Well, let's start with Dave's first move - 1. Nf3 - the Reti Opening, named after a GM called Richard Reti who just lurved sticking his knight on that square.  This opening can transpose into a myriad of queen pawn openings, or the English Opening.
2. ..... g6 - this is more akin to the English Opening.  Sooner or later white is bound to fianchetto his bishop on g2.  In this game, however, it doesn't happen.
18. ...... Rfe8 - just a little bit of scratching around to see what Dave does.  Although I am stumped for a plan here, at least I can put my rook on the same file as the Wicked Witch of the West.  Although I got into bother in my last game doing this, on a central file, I think it is OK here.
20. ..... Ra8 - Hmm, I think Dave is trying to double rooks on the a column.  I think my heavies ought to be in the near vicinity of it to prevent any ingress of white pieces into my pos!
I'm comfortable with the opening I play here... I know it blocks my dark-square bishop but it makes for solid development for me
Does this does good for B's centre control?
My rook is lost!
I was focussing on the top part of the board too much - I didn't see this coming
my knight is lost here... with this move, plus Black's queenside pawns (which could easily be advanced to a pawn promotion) I resign.
Odd opening.  This will be taken advantage of.
Classic opening trick. It is either a naive attack or a nasty trick I should know.
+6. A N pinned. Relatively safe Q. b2 is lost, but I would welcome to exchange one of white's bishops. It is starting to look hard for me to develop.
f6 was coming into consideration, but I wasn't sure at all about opening the game. I needed control.
I am dangerously driving his pieces to open field, knowing that minor piece's weakness against the rooks it the "two undefended sided pieces" situation.
Now the game, sadly, loses interest, but it is still an unbalanced game...
A Mini-tournament game, I'm playing white and, you guessed it, I start with the Open Game.
The long diagonal looks good for white's LSB.
This feels wrong, or at least dangerous, to hunt pawns on the kingside while black is forming a powerful queenside attack. White's king may find himself in jeopardy, risking the loss of the game, while black is risking only the loss of pawns - quite an imbalance of risks.
Black ignores the danger to his king, or more accurately, the danger to his other pieces that begins with a discovered check against his king, and launches an attack of his own. White must deal with the advanced black pawns before continuing with his own attack.
26. Rd3 pretty much forces black's next move, and 26. ... bxc2 effectively neutralizes black's advanced pawn until he can get more pieces into the attack. All of which gives white time to pounce.
not playing the main line. the main line here was 10...Nc6 and keeps black ahead. the move in the game give white the advantage as Black's queen will soon be hanging on a5 and the b8 cant move to good positions.
developing pieces and preparing castling. the f-file is critical.
d4, This opening is one I'm sure most of us are familiar with so I won't bore you all too much with the details.....
Some may see this as a bad exchange for black, having doubled the c pawns, however in many cases I find the open B-file sufficient compensation..
Now white begins to exert real pressure on my K'side and a real struggle ensues...
I throw this in as an irritation but it achieved little, a wasted move I feel..
Of course it falls anyway and I have a real chance of an all out attack...
This is my second annotation. I hope everyone liked the last one. Anyway, this was against another 1300, and he also was very good. I want to say thank you to him for the game (I will be playing him again because this is from a mini-tournament.) So, thankyou:)
so far, so good
?? WHY????? This isn't very good at all.
?? Stop it!
!! This wins black's queen.
And this is checkmate. Hope you liked the annotation. Bye!
Philidor's defense.
This game in my Latvian Gambit series features recognizable lines for a while, switching over to a particularly bloody variation where both sides lose half their pieces by the sixteenth move. After that, it's all about who can remobilize the fastest. Enjoy!
?! The key move of the controversial Latvian Gambit. Very rarely seen at high levels, Black gives up a pawn (and usually much more) for a lead in space and development.
This is the main line. White grabs the free pawn and threatens a dangerous attack with Qh5.
?! This is a questionable move at best, even for an opening of dubious merit. Black offers White a Rook for a Knight, betting that after 4.Qh5+ g6 5.Nxg6 Nf6 6.Qh3 hxg6 7.Qxh8 Qe7 his superior development will allow him to recoup his losses in the midgame.
Black allows White the advantage of the bishop pair--if he wishes to take it in exchange for one of his only two developed pieces.
Insofar as there is any precedent in this line (there isn't much), this is all standard. Black keeps piling on the e-file and White defends it in the most reasonable ways available.
And here we are. Black has the advantage in mobility and development for the moment, but needs to convert it to something more substantial before White can mobilize his unopposed kingside pawn cluster.
?! White prevents a check on g2 (16...Ng2+? 17.Kf1 and the Knight is lost) and drives this Knight away. I think this move weakens White's pawns unnecessarily though (Black's Bishop is eyeing h3 hungrily), as he has no pieces ready to defend himself. I think 16.O-O was simpler and stronger here.
With the thought that after 22.d3, Black can play 22...Nf3+ 23.Kh1 (not 23.Kg2? Bh3+!! 24. Kxh3 Rh8+ 25.Kg4 (25.Kg2?? Rxh2#) ...Nxh2+ 26.Kf4 Nxf1 27.Kxe4 Re8+ 28.Kd4 Re1) 23...exd3 24.Be3 Be4 with a strong position.
? Avoiding ...Nxh4+, winning material, but Black has an unexpected resource...
0-1. White sees the upcoming mate after 30.Kh1 (six moves; try to find it before looking below) and surrenders graciously. This game is (I think) a shining example of the kind of tactics characteristic of the Latvian. After the fifteen moves each, White had a small material lead, but not a single piece developed, and it took him too long to get his remaining pieces into the game--the final position says it all, where Black has all four of his pieces engaged in the mating attack, whereas White's Rook and Bishop are barely participating.<n><n>Thanks so much to enfuego7 for the game! Any comments on the analysis or the game itself are much appreciated; if you leave a rating please also comment letting me know why you rated the way you did. Thanks for reading!<n>.<n>.<n>.<n>30.Kh1 Bh3! 31.Rg1 (any other move allows 31...Bg2#) ...Nxg1 32.Kxg1 Nf3+ 33.Kh1 Rh8 34.Bh6 Rxh6 35.Rg1 Bf1#. Several shorter variations are possible.
!? I momentarily forget myself and thrust the d pawn forward, rather than the usual e-pawn.  As it wasn't deliberate, I can't really take credit for this gambit, but it works rather well.
an option not available to Black in the Petroff.  This seems a sensible response, though it does block Black's WSB in.
Now Black has a serious problem trying to complete his development and White's kingside attack is almost ready.
This made my planned continuation look more attractive, although it didn't end up giving me much of an advantage really
!? Good shock value but I suspect it's not best ...
! the K is overloaded and the Q falls.  Black resigned.
A gambit is offered.
Seizing command of the center, as is always White's objective in this opening.
White equalizes the material and aims his Knight at the weakened Black K-side.
Tucking the King in what Black thinks is the safest available spot, while adding a guard to the KBP.
Seemingly the only choice.
Not a fan of this, but some are, but have to deal with it before it becomes a problem.
And a good move spoting it.
ready for a suprise discovery with this move.
A crucial win from last week's match, which helped take us to the top of the table.  I gained a crushing grip at the end of the opening, which I maintained through the middle game, but then lost my way in trying to force the win with a king chase when swapping off to capitalise on my material advantage would have won more easily.
An Accelerated Dragon, not something I've met often.  I've got a book on it somewhere but I don't remember anything about it!
After a short middle game, we now move into a long end game, with a slight advantage to me at this point.
6 points and half an hour up, the win should be easy now.  My watching colleagues were expecting me to force swaps and quickly exploit the extra material.  I became obsessed with a king hunt which proved none too easy ...
(*Back one for intro*)Only a GM playing at this level considers this move normal. Most of us patzers try to stake pawns in the center right away......
Simple development.
I see moves like this when I play stronger players myself. I can only assume the intent is to tie down black's light squared bishop in a protective role, while protecting the c pawn and getting an early line aimed towards black's king.
I guess this is why I will never break 1600. This move makes little sense to me. Black's Nb8 has just lost a potential home.
And the "swinging door" opens.
Notice the position. Black has 5 pieces working collectively, while white has a a lonely queen attacking nothing of value, a knight tied down protecting e1, and a rook who has put a "Do not disturb" sign on his door......
RJF ain't having it!!!!!!!!!!!!
Anybody else notice that besides having an AWESOME attack underway, he also has two connected passed pawns?
And there you have it. An absolute masterpiece of attack. I've never seen a game like it. That guy sure could (can?) play. I hope you have enjoyed the game, and I welcome any feedback you may have.<n>Best regards - tag1153
I'm stabbing in the dark here for an appropriate move that takes advantage of the space.  Is this any good?  (Comments welcome!)
Contact at last.  I don't mind this bishop getting chased, and the opposing king side getting blown open in the process.
Black continues development, but this move seems very quiet.  A kingside breakthrough must be played, and time is of the essence.
Battle lines drawn.  Neither side has a foothold in the opposing territory, and space is roughly equal.  Which side is better? Comments?
The king side is less solid now, and the mighty DSB is off the board, but I have an open file for my rook in exchange.
Interesting defense, creating an escape square for the K.
This was my try.  Was it best?
Black fights desperately for space, but I don't think this works.
Black resigned.  Comments welcome!
hoping for a runner
black has under a minute and i proceed to ignominiously harry him with a series of checks.
black has the crushing a1=Q but runs out of time...
Black sacs the exchange.
Black lags in development.
Team match, and I'm playing black. My opponent is rated 2 points higher than me when the game begins. White begins with Benko's Opening. I've never seen this before, so it should be fun. It ranks 5th in popularity of all of white's possible 1st moves. Interestingly enough, a couple hundred years ago this opening was called The Rat. I decide to catch the rat with the Indian system.
Standard development.
The computer calls this an inaccuracy.
Okay, I'll finish my development.
And here it is: the bomb.
I decide to exchange my central pawn to White's non-central queen-side pawn, an action which increases the opponents impact on the center. But for that, I enjoy a gain of development. Another very interesting option, which maintains central control and has been played frequently by grandmasters, would have been 2... f6.
Simple development.
King-side is fully developed now, the next few moves have to focus on the movement of the queen-side pieces which have been quite lazy till now.
Developing with a gain of tempo. If White doesn't want me to possess the pair of bishops (and thus the minor imbalances), he has to move his attacked dark-squared bishop...
?? However, my opponent took the wrong decision. I don't think 18. Bf3 would have caused him any troubles at all. But through the pawn move, the king-side is weakened.
Hi everybody, just to continue my theme of making blunders under pressure this time it is my buddy dmaestro who is on the receiving end.  A lot of the time dmaestro has caused me many problems and I have suffered from serious passivitis against him so I am glad to give something back here!  I kick off with c4 which is the English Opening.
He has to lose a piece in this sequence and again just didn't see it coming.
Black resigned here although it would have taken a little work to avoid a stalemate or a draw. But being a 1900 player, he felt this was his loss and took it like a man. Good game.
A true member of the schablone family... If we can play this happily ever after, this game will surely draw... So white has to break the symmetry... But how? 5. Bb5+ will surely do the trick, but after c6, Bd3, Bxd3, Qxd3, Bd6, the position is fairly equal... And in blitz, you only get five minutes, to prove any point...<n><n>>>>>>Special note to water123: nobody cares what you think. I call my opponents not by name, to protect their privacy, whether they win or lose... We call this respect, something you've never heard of. You do not only insult me, but also my opponent(s).<<<<<
Very nice move... Altough this implies a queen sac, we introduce Nd2+, and win it back... After Kxe4, Qxg5...
This man always responds like this. I say it only wins him the opening about 10% of the time, but I am more experienced in the openings.
This protects the E pawn.
I have a mate in 2, avoidable, but not very. Luckily, He gives me a free checkmate by playing the game waster, Bxc2
This move has variations, (Nd7, Ba4, g5,) but they all lead up to the killing checkmate....
I don't know really how to play against an English opening, so I went for a standard developement plan, exploiting the black diagonal with a fianchetto.
Now a trap is set for white, involving the unfortunate position of the dsb. But he didn't see it.
A sad decision. Probably white is thinking about d4 - a good option to open the game a little. But it didn't consider the tactic I have.
White position needed aggressivenes, this kind of passive move has its purposes, but is just slow. Ok, it supports f4 or Nf4. But Rg1, or d4... I don't know, really :-)
I liked my open acres on the Q-side and was determined to restrain the remote isolated passed pawn.
An interesting offer of the exchange...
Already a pawn and the exchange up, Black has swapped the R for a B and 2 pawns, so is still material up: 3 pawns.
and I finally resigned.
Good supporting move and opening lines for Black's Kingside Bishop
Blacks accepts the gambit which is Queen's Gambit/Accepted line c4 dxc4
Developing move for Black
a good developing move and takes hold of b1-h7.
Better is f6 which wins apawn for a pawn
I refuse this trap.  After 15...Bxb4 16. Nf6+ Rxf6 17. Bxf6, black would have lost a rook for a knight.
White activates the queen for the king-side attack.
Black gains a passed pawn.
21...Bb5 attacks the blocked white rook on the f-file, and white takes the passed pawn.
Excellent!  You're developing your pieces.
I'm skeptical of this.  How about f6 instead?
What?? How about developing your pieces?  Like Nd4. Qa4.  Be skeptical of your pawn pushes so early in the game when your pieces are not out yet.
This is a surprising move, and not in a good way.  Timid.
This used to be known as the Philidor Variation (2. f4), something of a reversed Dutch position. Way back in 1834, Louse-Charles Mahe de La Bourdonnais played his greatest match of his career, hailed by many as a world championship match (though there was no title back then) against Alexander McDonnell. In that match, La Bourdonnais demonstrated that this variation is not sound and allows black to equialize efficiently. Today it's better known as the Grand Prix Attack, or the McDonnell attack. Me, I really know nothing about this attack, so I let the DB guide me through my next few moves.
Moving for a quick undoubling of those d-pawns, and opening lines for the queen's bishop.
White took me by surprise with this move. Obviously, his plan is 21. ... Bxd5 22. Nd7, forking queen and rooks and winning the exchange. This speculative sacrifice, if it works, could trade evenly, two white knights for a black rook + pawn, and has the added advantage of blunting black's attack. However, white miscalculated. 21. Nxd5? simply loses his knight for a pawn - if white stops here to reconsider.
Standard Sicilian so far.
and this move adds (Kalashnikov) to the variation name... I wonder what the longest variation name in Chess Database of openings is.  Anyone know?
This was an interesting play.  I think Bxc3 might have been better, but let's see how it plays out.
Qa5, a nice threat, but this move takes Blacks queen away from the main action of my attack and doesn't offer enough of a counter attack.  I think better was b5.
Black now is showing his intentions of getting his king side rook involved, maybe this is why I didn't move Qf3 on the previous move...
and it begins
time to chip away at Black's weakened king side defenses and maintain heavy pressure... notice also how Black's light square bishop is locked in and consequently keeps his other Rook locked in.
Another game that I think I played well other than a few mistakes, but I have only been playing for 7 months at this time so mistakes are going to happen. Fell free to comment if you see something I did not. I will try to learn all the abbreviations for pieces and moves in the future but I will do my best for now.
This is how I was opening up most of the time for awhile. I grew not  so fond of it because if I move my Q pawn to d3 I end up leaving my bishop open for a pawn attack.
Try to a achieve what I think is the Sicilian defence with a pawn exchange.
Preparing for a King side attack.
Queen's gambit declined, exchange, Saemisch variation
so now we have a Carlsbad pawn structure white allows black's light squares bishop more freedom than he would usually has in the Queen’s Gambit Declined, but in return, white fixes the central pawn structure, has a half-open c-file, and a pawn-majority in the centre. From now on white has three possible plans for the middlegame:<n><n>a) castle queenside and attack black’s king by means of a pawn-storm<n>b) make use of the central pawn majority, with Bd3, Qc2 and Nge2<n>c) make a minority attack by the advance of the b pawn hoping to create weaknesses in black's queen side<n><n>Black on the other side has some counter-play in form of a minority attack on king side with the pawn push f5-f4, or exploit white weaknesses on c4 and e4<n><n>I'll try "plan B", with an eye for a possible  swindle back to "plan A"
keeping the pieces on board
I didn't see this coming until g5,
The Pd4 is finally lost.
My standard response is Nf6, with the hope of a King's Indian.  I play against Queen's Pawn openings quite regularly, one of the great players in Costa Coffee specialises in it enjoying the slow tactical manoeuvring that he can achieve.
Poor choice of moves, and now my lead is well and truly established.  I think the best option for White was 20.Rad1 Nxd3 21.Qxd3 Bxc4 22.Qc3 Bxb3 23.axb3, yes it loses a Pawn but I think it was the best option available.  After 20.Nf3, we're looking at 20...dxc4 21.Bxc4 Bxc4 22.Qc2 Nxf3+ 23.gxf3 Bxb3 24.axb3 which loses a Knight and a Pawn.
Threatens a cheeky mate!  White is hoping Black is so interested in his own attack that he misses this.
Black does not miss it :o)
Gives up on the a2 Pawn, no real choice left in all honesty.
I now have an advantage, but one must be very cautious when playing queen endgames.
If he takes it, I promote.
White resigns with less than 3 minutes on the clock for both of us. This was truly a long and exciting game. With this win, Kamiak won the WESCO league by a single point*, and for the first time ever. I hope you enjoyed viewing this as much as I enjoyed sharing it.<n><n>*It was actually 1.5 points, since Stanwood had to make up a match against Monroe, for which we expected them to win 5-0 (no offence to Monroe), but instead they went 4.5-0.5.
Hi everyone!<n><n>After a run of bad losses it is nice to talk about a win, especially one which involves Glenda The Defender in the position of her dreams!  Well they certainly came true in this one.  Watch this space.  Gameknot Analysis is provided for this game (which starts off as a Sicilian Naijdorf) as follows:- http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=16118151&fb=1&rnd=0.03013906409039291
19. f6 - here comes a line opening pawn sac of which black accepts.
All this so far is the main line in the Ruy Lopez.
I wasn't 100% sure of this move, sure it's a good move, and it's attacking the d5 which is easy enough to remove the guard from, but it slows down what is supposed to be an aggresive game
this has happened to me so many times, I decided it was time I started using it more.
!?!?!?!? ok, I'll admit that this pawn structure bothers me for awhile, but this move was terrible.
this is the end of the game. g8 is mate, f8 is free rook and great position, this game is over either way
this game is a perfect example of this agressive opening, but I would like to have castled, but I had too much of an attack going to slow down for a turn
Now the game has transposed into a kind of French Defense where Black has played N-QB3 instead of P-QB4.
If 19... PxKP?, 20 Q-N5 ch K-B1 21 N-N5 PxP dis ch 22 P-B4 NxBP 23 KR-KB1 NxQP 24 NxP ch wins for White.
My opponent decided to take my queen in exchange for his
I did this for a knight-for-knight exchange, with my pawn two moves away from promotion
We both lost a rook and a pawn here
I think this game illustrates very well the folly of neglecting development. Also, the futility of attacking with only two minor pieces.
The Birds opening. One I come across once in a while and one that does throw me a little. However I had little to fear this time round.
Collecting the second pawn in exchange for my bishop, I also gain an enormous potential for an all out assault...
I knew this was a lethal attack at this point and i couldn't see a way to stop it, I really was inspired by this game....
Just beautiful, I'm very proud of this game. Playing as black, sacrificing and checkmating in 20 moves really did make me feel brilliant. This is one of those rare moments in chess when it just all went perfectly for me. This is why i play for moments of satisfaction like that. Thx for reading and plz feel free to comment.
Hi everyone!<n><n>Has anybody ever heard of Steve Backshall?  Well, he is a guy who just lurves chasing wild animals, although on occasions they chase him.  I found out about him from watching a Children's programme called CBBC with my six year old Charlotte and later played the CBBC game where Steve has to outrun bees, hippos and alligators - this game is called Steve's Deadly Dash.  In this MT in aid of the Christchurch Earthquake I am playing Master Janet.  Things seemed to be OK for me when suddenly Henry was subjected to a deadly dash from her rook and the Wicked Witch of the West.  Alas, Henry got caught and he had to rest up!  Anyhow, on with the game.  Gameknot Analysis is provided in the following link.http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=15488483&fb=1&rnd=0.19786173690656117.  Janet kicks off with the English Opening - 1.c4.
4. ....... Nxd5 - pawn trade.
15. Qxa1 - ..... but there is an exchange sac on white's part.  Can this be justified?  We shall see.
Natural, and hard to meet.  The Nf6 has no squares and Black is doomed, just 15 moves in.   If you play through the rest of the game, try to guess White's next move in the continuance of his attack.
White has an extra pawn on the Q-side, but the semi-open f-file and h-file are catastrophic for Black.
Hello to everybody...This is a game that i played with a lower rated player and i actually won no points...I just did it for fun..So feel free to make any comments or rate the game... i started with e4...
c5? He's still back in development and he played c5! So I had an easy plan in my mind. The plan is simple...i'd let him took the knight and i'll win the game...Of course he should have prevented that but as i said before he's a low rating player so he might took the chance and risk it...
I analyzed this game with Stockfish 1.8.0. 25 seconds per move. I'll also put my own comments.
Stockfish 1.8 JA 64bit: Analysis reports blunder, with score change from/to:  -0.76 / -1.61<n>( 15.c5 bxc5 16.Nd5 Nb3 17.Bc3 Ne4 18.Nh4 Rb8 19.Bd3 Nxc3 20.bxc3 Bd6 21.Nf5 h5 22.Ke2 Be6 23.c4 hxg4 24.hxg4 Kd7 25.Rxh8 Rxh8 26.Be4 Na5 =+ )<n><n>The pawn is already lost so white should have tried to double black pawns with c5
e4 opening
knights opening (classic)
But, I don't buy it
But, I must find something good in this
He takes care of it
But, he always has a defense ready
All the opening moves are played for the Queens Indian Defence (as per game title) to whites move 7. and we begin to make our moves now.  Black to start and he opens with DB to b4 attacking my knight.
Black pushes his a pawn out to a5 and he has a chain of pawns and is protecting the diagonal from b4 to d6 with these pawns.  I probably should have pushed my c pawn and tried to attack on c5 and this would have broken the chain and given me more centre space.
Black moves h4-h5 and I don't see that he is now bringing his flank pawns to take control of another diagonal.
I bring my rook from a1 to f1 and white looks good for an attack on the king.  However I seem to have forgotten the queen is at d7 and therefore is liable to attack.
I feel I probably was not looking too bad up to now but it looks like my chance has gone with my queen.  The way black has blocked the centre with the pawns is not only bad for me but I feel it is bad for black too.  So despite black having more pawns it really does not show the real picture.  All he has is an extra piece and one passed pawn.
Black queens and I pickup although there is a rook at the top of the b file and I will be captured but at least black does not have another piece on the board for me to defend against.
Black now moves his passed pawn on the e-file to e2.  I feel I have a chance to interfere with this attempt.
I lost for a blunder, but till it, it was a very interesting game.
it's almost incredible, but from here I have tactical resources, due to the queen's check in h5.
I left him the b column... this is really risky.
In white square, but very far from my king. It doesn't look so good.
Reti, I like this opening when I'm white so maybe we think alike... we shall see.
Unusual so far.
This is an awkward square for his knight, and is useless until I initiate an exchange later.
A good idea, but I was hoping for this.
Now his queen is trapped.
4. Bxc6 - of which he gave me the Exchange Variation.
10. Nxe5?! - Hilary surprises me with a speculative sac.  Subsequent play, however, proves this to be unsound.  At the time he did get two pawns for his piece though.
45. ..... h6 - this move is played to create a bolt hole for Henry while the two rooks are on the board - it would help greatly if Henry was not subjected to annoying tempo-stealing checks from the enemy rooks.
66. ..... Kf3 - ooops - I have just realised, Henry is the wrong side of my passer.  If I try and walk my pawn up to Glendadom I risk stalemating the WK when my pawn reaches g3.  I must therefore get Henry back onto the h file and try and get the WK off it.  Luckily my opponent is very obliging here!
67. ...... Kg3 - I think this move is the clincher here!
71. ..... g2 - and Hilary waves the white flag.  He is in Zugzwang.  Can you the jury see how?  Anyhow, hope you have had a good read - bye for now - Joanne
This variation always leaves Black with a thorn on e4.
I know, it doesn't look like a good move. <n>My other choice to protect my kingside is Qe2, and I'm bottled in and really don't protect the kingside all that well. So I'll let him double my pawns. He can't immediately take advantage of them, and he may run into trouble if he chooses the wrong way to get them.<n>Probably his best choice, after trading the queens is to put his rooks on a5 and a8 while I put mine on d6 and d1.
Book opening so far.
Development proceeds apace.
Game, set and match!
Bc5, this is not the most accurate move in this position, better moves would be Nc6, Nf6 or Bb4.
After Bc4, Nf6, Nd5 was played. This move sets up the trap - white is now challenging black's knight on f6 and leaves the e pawn undefended, if black takes the e pawn then he would be in trouble.
Black takes the bait with his knight, and threatens Nxf2 forking white's queen and rook.
Black decided to save his beloved queen, and played Be7. He totally missed my next move. What did he miss? Can you find the next move for white?
Kaboom! Nf6 checkmate! This trap perfectly demonstrated that you should never be greedy, especially during the opening. I hope you enjoyed reading this annotation, please feel free to leave your comments. I wish you good luck with your games, and see you next time.
Hoping but not expecting a QGD.
Black is ahead in development and has open lines for his pieces.But a pawn is a pawn and though he has compensation for the pawn I would gauge its not enough.
Black is ahead in development and open lines for his pieces.But a pawn is a pawn.I would gauge black has insufficient compensation at this stage.
Whites position is solid but black has the iniative and definite compensation.Black is almost fully developed and ready to pressure whites Q-side and centre.
In the last few moves black gained the B pair.In compensation white has managed to exchange a minor piece and alleviate his cramped positin a little.
Bremen variation
I dont normally approve of this kind of pawn pinching but in this case it removes the Ns defender
building a Q-side attack
And the Ns reach a mutual protection position where they will remain locked for the rest of the game. Effectively out of play
Analysis engines suggest Rhxc6 here which just shows the weakness of engines when it comes to subtle positional moves. The engine move leads to Rhxc6 RxR Rxa7 and white has traded a R for 2 Ns. With passed pawns on each side of the board it looks good BUT they are on the edge of the board so black only has to capture one and then the K can force a draw against the other one.
The game is lost but this move speeds up the end. Better was Kd8 threatening the R.
d4 is my best first move statistically so I played it.
Slav defense
This is probably the game winning mistake though blacks pawn are strong they are not quite decisive.  I got too greedy here I actually strengthened Nxd4.
The point of Qb8+ though I'm completely lost after the next few moves.
this is the move
Black really has to either come up with an attack or defend that f4 pawn (and counter attack). Black is doing what I usually did against my dad back in the 1960s when he taught me chess. This is a good move for Black but it doesn't really stop the pacing of White to really come on strong....
This is a usual move by Black to try and upset the King Side attack....
I would consider Black to have two "passed pawns" before I jumped. I always thought a pawn crossed over the center line was "passed" (at least it was "passed" in my days with my dad who taught me chess). <n><n>However, my knight that has to move is conveniently set to move again to e5....
I apply pressure to the f7 Black pawn. It is a standard King's Gambit practice...<n>You can see why, right? It really upsets things down in Black's King Side area....and King! <n>The King's Gambit is an Attack instead of a slow moving game that a Ruy will do to an end game. <n>This is why I don't use the Ruy Lopez.  My dad taught me not to use that defense against e4. I then learned Sicilian and Caro-Kann and Alekhine's instead to deal with e4. I became biased against the Ruy Lopez. I am still biased to this day even though I have used it a couple of times here just to see if it is really as good as others say (and do what) it is.
His passed pawns (as I understood it in the 60s from my dad) are targets for the King Side attack.
Applying pressure to make my King stay in the line of fire...however, more wickedness (in knowing the King's Gambit positions for the King Side attack) is in store....
I know it's a stacked pawn but it is worth developing and defending it....
The analysis of this move by Black says it's a mistake.  I did not have analysis at this time I was playing.  However, the logical next move here is, anyway....
I am -1 but obviously a real problem here for Black...all because I sacrificed a pawn in the King's Gambit. The KG was popular at the turn of the Century (20th Century = 1900s) and if you buy a book on Chess Openings that is complete through every 8th move and possibility you will see a quarter of the book dedicated to the King's Gambit. The Gambit is the most diverse and complicated White Attack ever. It is risky and does have holes in it--but by the time you are involved with it the position(s) have sent you light years ahead of any predictable game. I like it that way! No one can memorize the moves even up to the 5th or 6th or 7th--let alone 8th position!
No choice for Black.
My King can take care of this anticipated promotion while Black's Knights are out of position....
However,
This should end the game for sure but I don't know if I am playing against a person who wants to go to the end...<n><n>It turned out Black was ready to surrender. <n>Wish more on this site would see ahead and not drag out a game to checkmate. I do get checkmated on occasion but usually I see it and give up.
6. Bb5?misses Black's tactical shot...
I sacrificed a pawn to set some structural defects on black's pawns, but he managed to remain dynamic enough and I was forced to regains the pawn... latter on the game I was able to get a small advantage by trapping black's remaining bishop but was ultimately unable to proceed to promotion without losing that advantage. Overall it was a nice dynamic draw against an higher rated opponent, that was never able to exert any pressure... I choose not to publish this analysis yet, because in this tournament my direct opponent has the chance of playing for 19.5 points maximum, and I'm able to get only 19 points maximum for that I need a win against him playing black... my most direct opponent withdraw from this tournament, so now he is playing for 17,5 points and I'm playing for 19 points (although I'm almost sure to lose one point so more realistically I'm playing for 18 points)
this gives black three pawn islands which might be losing in the endgame... let's see, still too much to be played until then...
black has one extra pawn but his queen side pawns are week and I have the bishop pair... so equal material exchanges should in theory favor me
this looks drawish... but still I'll try to enforce my connected central pawns, I see two different approaches to this endgame, first to block the c5 pawn and capture it with both my rook and bishop coordinated, or to let black push the pawn to c4 obstructing his own bishop and the maneuver to capture any of the remaining pawns with my pieces
Ok. The battle field is set.  Black has accepted the 'poisoned' g2 pawn, and white has begun to try attempt proof of his opening beginning with 6. Qh5 .<n>After looking it up on the web I found a quote I liked. Apparently one Graham Burgess (of whom I know nothing) has said "Is not utterly, clearly bad.".
This is mandatory. Any other move (as far as I can see) destroys whites game.
?! This is most common in the torney (this far). It's a fun move that makes all kinds of tactics availible. There is however another possibility that leads the game into more normal/stable lines, 8. Qg5 ?!.<n>A possible continuation is 8. ... Qxg5 9. Bxg5  Be7 10. Bxe7  Nxe7 11. Bb3<n>and white should be better. Lead in development and control of the center.  The black king is stuck in the center and white still has the ability to castle. I think I'll try it in a few games.
... might look ok at first glance. Actually black had to accept the loss of both pieces and move his c-pawn. But in the back of my head I hoped for this.
And my opponent resigns. Anyway, this game was sort of advertisement, if your rating is above 1700 and you want to join my mini tournament, message me and will add you.
This game is from a team match.
The Winawer Variation. Other possibilities are 3...Nf6 (Classical Variation) and 3...dxe4 (Rubinstein Variation).
And not 44...Bxc1?? 45.Bxd7. Now black has three pawns for the exchange and d4 will also fall.
A trade on g5 would be good for black, so the two passed pawns can be connected.
This is slightly unusual. 3. d4 is normal.
I play this, expecting her to transpose back with 4. d4
I played this - and almost immediately regretted it. She could have played 5. d4 and transposed into variations of the Dragon Sicilian, which I am not too familiar with.
Bt she played this.
I was very happy when I saw this move. It prevents aggressive thrusts with f3 or f4. Now Rc8 or Ne5 gives black a good game.
I attack his queen.
So she takes.
I'm not sure this retreat is best.
She takes.
I take back, and at last I feel I have a chance of holding this game. With all the pawns on the king side it is hard for white to convert. But surely white will not lose?
At the time I thought this position hopelessly lost for white. However, a look at a free on-line ending database shows me that actually white can draw with Nf2, with careful play. All other moves lose.
Many thanks for reading, please rate my annotation with the star system, leave a comment or two, and until next time dear reader!
Normal development.
Protect my stake in the center while continuing development.
And white has no defense.
Wins a whole rook, Rxe6 works less well because white's best play gives me a queen and two pieces against two rooks and a biship in the end game.
Trying something new. The queens pawn opening after the kings pawn opening.
Development possibly and threatning c5.
I'll try it anyway although, I think he might've saw it.
Beginning to pressure Black's K-side.
A strategic error. White has the initiative and can exploit the opening up of the game better than Black.
Allowing a sharp tactical sequence.
Getting the Q out of immediate danger. However...
I like the Sicilian Scheveningen variation above the rest. My records in the past when I use Sicilian will show this.
And this is now my problem.  I am essentially behind in development while White has traded with a front I can't attack. I lost the attack here.  "In the fog of war" sort of thing.
The Queen is very limited and it takes work to use multiple pieces to contain her while trying to get ahead of her getting loose...
We both ignore the other's plans and hope our own attack is better. The ultimate game of "Chicken." I loved it!
Since I'm making this game public, I'll disclaim what eventually will become pretty apparent: I'm neither a very skilled or experienced chess player beyond the world of recreational chess.
Here, with the aftersight of how the game progressed, its pretty easy to see that my opponent's bishops, queen, rook, and the d4 knight were perfectly set up for a pawn attack against my dragon formation. I've discovered that this might be a weakness of the dragon...in my past games it has seemed to depend on the pawn structure and bishop remaining in that formation. I might need to think of a defense that can answer this threat if I'm to continue using it.
This point in the game is rife with my own mistakes. With such a heavy attack going, I don't know how I could have ignored it at this point.
At first I thought this move would stump my opponent and give me a little breathing room, but it didn't.
Two Knights' defense by the book so far... I mostly play Nxf7, Kxf7, Qf3+, and see where this will lead me; best now is probably Ke6!?, Nc3; however, Nce7 is much safer... recommended here is the Fischer line d4!, Be7, Nxf7, Kxf7, Qf3+, with roughly the same results; I should try that one time... this time however, I tried something else; soon to my regret...
so far so good, white has a pawn and the balance is somewhat restored... Qb4, a3, Qd4 is probably best for black, or straightaway Qd4...
it is hard for black to keep finding the right moves; this is not helping either...
Black leaves the bishop alone, but now has dropped a pawn and lost the ability to castle.
Defends the e4 pawn and keeps the mobility of the king down. If 7... Kf6 8. Bf5 is planned, but perhaps after 8... g6 black can start to mobilise pieces.
Material is heavily lost now, and black requires some tactical counter-play. I need to make sure the exposed nature of my king does not allow tactical combinations involving the queen and bishops. For example, whilst my queen rests on a8, a check with the f8 bishop allowing the rook to capture it is a real risk, albeit when the black queen is no longer on e7.
The irony is, I had also missed the fact this pawn was defended when I played Bd2, and very nearly played 17. Kd1<n><n>Fortunately I spotted the capture in time...
Game annotation for team benefit --
I am not so sure about this move and it's purpose. My idea is that black can with 6...h5 to achieve a good position (which i did not do :)) <n>For me most common is 6.Ne2
This is a long draw where I think we both missed a lot of chances, so hopefully it will be instructive to analyse it.  This is a fast ladder game against a tricky opponent against whom I have an uneven record ...We open with his usual brand of Sicilian, characterised by 2...Nc6.
I don't usually fianchetto kingside against the Sicilian but this looked quite promising.
The N moves before it is attacked.  Now Black can swap it off and pursue his planned Q-side expansion.
So I decided to swap it off immediately, possibly also disrupting his pawns.  However, my B was really stronger than his, so perhaps I should have kept them on and improved the position of my King with 28. Kf2, covering the square e2.
Now Black has a passed f-pawn and I have virtually useless doubled h-pawns.
Hi everyone!<n><n>Now finally here is Part 4.  I thought that this time I would round it off with a game against two masters just to prove a point that in general 2 pieces are certainly better than a rook.  We see Master Freddy in action again.  In fact, Freddy's opponent is a IM so a tough game in store for Freddy.  After white played 1. e4 Freddy starts off with another fav opening of his with the blacks - the Alekhine's Defense.  This move is Nf6.
6. fxe5 - pawn trade.
7. Be3 - development.
8. ....... e6 - Freddy tries to keep up with his opponent in the development stakes, he opens up a line for his dsb.
g6 is also played, but risking pawn structure
the real drawback of castling late and black is still a move away
A drawish opening...
playing for the attack...
Black has a large material advantage, but his QR and QB are out of play, so White has more pieces that are effective.
White has won back most of his material now. The final attack starts.
I believe this is a book move as well.
book:?
?! I don't know if this was good or bad but it worked out well for me.
white resigned
Exchange of pawns
White takes my other unguarded pawn
The only move that wouldn't have lost me my rook.
black needs to focus on strengthening e5, while continueing development, rather than opening the position, which would mostly benefit white's development
possibly meant to halt the progress of the black pawns, but they can continue unfazed
Getting the final piece involved in the attack while simultaneously covering e5
In this game, I gain positional advantages which eventually lead to the win of a pawn. My opponent sacs another pawn to keep my knight hemmed in. I sac it to go into an ending a knight for 2 pawns down, but my king is so active, it is very hard to defend. I honestly couldn't see all the posibilities to the end. I wonder - would a computer have played this sac? Perhaps someone with Fritz or a decent chess computer can tell me please? Was there a defence?
Black has centrally placed pieces. The white knight is off-side, but the rook is active.
And here it is. I thought I had to play this to make any progress. I saw that the endings were hard for white, but I couldn't see every possibility.
and black has his pawns straightened out.
White has managed to maintain his slight theoretical plus, but the h pawn is a winner!
Normally the KP opening leads to faster wins. But opening traps can occur anywhere...
Theory dictates this is by far the best 2nd move in this position.
An unusual defense.
The logical reply.
Marshall continues his development, and since it's a QP opening, he focuses on the invasion point at QB7 instead of KB7.
Tchigorin cautiously continues his own development. He aims to move his KP and clear lines for developing the K-side.
Last book move
This is a dubious defense but I can't find an immedite refutation.
I resigned here because it is easily won for black. He can give up the bishop for me pawn and then he could play c1.  If I try to check him once he gets his king to b1 the game is lost.
with the though of d5 and opening the f column for my rook
opening the f column
passief, Pc6 of Lc5 is actiever
-You Bastard! Eat this!
He misses! -Why???-I asked him on msn. His reply: -I didn't see it.
I attacked his Queen with the knowledge of 23. Qh4+
Huh... Can I win this game???
I think he should have played this about his 23rd move. But maybe it's not too late now, either...
Why don't we exchange??? Pleaseee!:D
After I move something convenient, Na5 and I have a pawn lost.
UM MM this was a good move by white, if i move my bishop back he has the prawn on g7, and my knight on f6 is in danger i cannot let this happen!!
Never saw it coming,
On a blitz basis, this opening has some very dangerous lines if black goes after the pawn.
Just thank you. See how white was not right in delaying his Bb2 move. It is not only logical, it's needed.
So let's complicate the game even more! I'll recover my piece back and I won't even scramble my pawns! - White has a tempting response here, very bad, a normal one and a risky one. Can you see them?
White went for the "normal" one. The risky was 13. Qh5. black will win the N with xNg6, but white would have had Qxe5+, usually very good. But not in this position! White made the best move, after all.
! White got me! I lost tempo bydefending, and now I get this in return. I still have my piece virtual advance, but... how to use it? While wondering that, I lost sight of a "little" problem!
Let's see how far he goes.
Ok, his Q is diverted from the king, and d2 will fall. This is not a good strategy, since I free white's pieces, but see how I am unable to get some advantage. So I have to risk more! This is a blitz, not a championship. Will be my intuition good enough?
He can get the useless B! I'll have a R on the second rank...
Forcing the Q's exhange? No, sir, not until I'm sure I'll win!
...but he prefers to bet his life on his pawns! That means a lot of tempos for me!
Not even exchanging the two R for the White's Q gives me a win.
Now. Now! The game is not won. In order to win, I have to be sure to get rid of all white's pawn, and I have a B for doing it. How? White has to be sure about his pawn's march will keep black busy and, with luck, try to snatch some of the black's extra pawn in the process... very hard.
? White's final mistake was very forgivable. True is that Qxe3 was the right choice, where I lost the pawn for very few but a Q's exchange and Bxg3 in return. But this tried to be more aggressive. Can you see the flaw in this white's idea? Do your homework, please! :-)
Again with the Centre Game. The first time I used this series of moves, I won fairly convincingly, and I like this, as my bishops control two diagonals, and my queen controls another. I also have a high success rate with this opening.
...but the pawn covers it...
...and my opponent does likewise...
...and I move her along the top rank to check the king, forcing him onto the 5th rank had my opponent not resigned. The moral of the story? If you go into a pawn ending with a numerical advantage, in nearly every case, you will win, as you have more queening opportunities. It very often depends on how far advanced they are, and whether or not they are passed.
Classic opening
The Giuoco Pianissimo, a very positional opening compared to the aggresive 4.c3!? 4.0-0 is also an option
He goes out of book with this move.
I have 2 centre pawns and better development so +=
this foces the exchange of Qs (otherwise Qc7+ Ka8 Qc8+ RxQ RxR#)
not a good move as i now trade and have a clear position with no Black counterplay
I think that's a good place for a knight, so far 1 pawn down but decent development.
When in doubt, strike down the middle.
But I don't mind this way either
Didn't think it would work
I really liked this move! My knight just seemed so valuable in this spot.
I think jammic's idea is good, but he doesn't have enough of a time advantage to make this work in the end.
Fianchetto52 mentioned this move and the more I meditated on it the more it seemed like the best option.  Essentially, I'm trading an inactive rook for jammic's most valuable piece.  Apparently this seals the deal!
this is where i knew my only chance is.... enable rook a b-line and queen c-line with good move on Qc3... but his Bb2 with queen on black would win the game, but...
White resigned.  The material deficit is just too much to overcome.
Opening lines for development.
Instead of wasting a tempo taking the pawn, I offer the computer my pawn to for a lead in development.
...................I develop a piece to defend it. Development is the most important part of the opening, and can often lead to pretty wins like this one.
Black shouldn't move the same piece twice in the opening, unless it will strongly place your piece. Most computers don't know that.
Notice how Black can't develop because of all my tactical threats.
Black's king is very exposed and my developing active pieces were crushing. Black didn't have time to develop the kingside because I had so many tactical threats on the queenside.
Dunst opening.
Third time white has moved this bishop.
Hello! I'm black in this game. The strange game name was from my opponent. No idea what he/she meant.
I know, this is not precise, but common in my level
this was novelty for me. Usually it is bishop exchange
Good exchange in my eyes
ok, this is not so good..
This gives me nice compensation for exchange
Hmm. This move looses, I think.
And here it is!
Another game from the ongoing Annotation Project, in which a total of 110 games are being played to explore all the ups and downs of an intriguing early queen sacrifice. For further comments on the opening, see my recent annotated game vs. untateve.
The first diversion from my game against untateve, in which 9... e6 was played. That is also the move I have encountered more often. This alternative prevents a knight incursion on f7, but has the disadvantage of further delaying the development of Black's minor pieces.
Black opens a second line for the bishop, perhaps hoping to exchange it for the c3 knight. This does, however, seem to make 11... e6 look questionable.
Better was 21... e5, when 22. Bf4 exf4 23. Rxe8 R(either)xe8 24. fxg6 enters an unclear endgame in which White is still nominally at a disadvantage, but the g6 pawn is strong. This move loses immediately:
Unusual reply, but Black isn't interested a draw.
White takes advantage of the position of the Black bishop to get the pawn to d4, but at the price of a piece exchange.
? An immediate Qb4 is better. But the idea here is to prepare for freeing action on the Q side.
So we start off with a common queen's pawn opening.
This position is quite unusual. However, both sides seem to have decent chances.
?! This is an inaccuracy that gives white the initiative.
And here we reach a critical point in the game. It is almost as if white is daring me to play Rf3. My opponent was getting very low on time though(just under 15 minutes). I started to get really nervous. Second guessing myself and I began to struggle with my calculations. So I messed up.
My position is completely lost. However, I have one move up my sleeve that really threw my opponent off. It made him think for a while, until has clock had run all the way down to under 3 minutes. That is when he messed up.
? Exchanging! Now this game is probably a draw.
Draw agreed. This was a stressful game where my nerves got the better of me. I should have lost, but I got lucky.
A recently finished game from the 52nd GK Tournament.  My opponent was higher rated and seemed to be a move ahead of me for most of this game and its companion but eventually I got lucky.  Read on...
an unexpected counter-gambit.  It has a reasonable reputation.
Hi everyone!<n><n>This is a game in which I played against a buddy of Freddy the Master Mater which ended in a loss for me.  His name is Craig.  He played a very unusual line of the Sicilian after I kicked off with 1. e4.  He responded c5 and I played the standard Nf3.
2. ...... f5 - an unusual line, a gambit.  I decided to accept the gambit and see what happened.
5. ...... Bxf5 - pawn trade.
7. ....... bxc6 - N for B trade.
...but my opponent is wise to this...
...and my opponent decides likewise for his pawn.
This time he moves his g-pawn forwards...
...but he takes the open file...
...and replicate this position for a third time. Keeping the rook under control ensured that it couldn't get too far.
Also standard.  Develops, clears K-Side for castling and takes part in the fight for control of the centre.
Opening a file to get rid of some of the heavy artillery.
White is temporarily up a Pawn, but it's  doubled and isolated. Plus I now threaten to win it back.
This move is just as good as 5. bxa6.  Psychologically, I always found it difficult to be on the black side of this.
White has a strong advantage with a lot of choices here.  Re1 is just as good.
It would be easier to defend e5 with Qb8, although Black has to then be aware of any potential attack on the file.
White actually lost here by overstepping the time control.  What follows is computer analysis on how the game could have continued.
Not a normal opening for me, but fairly standard looking development.
Kingside pressure is far bigger for black now, so I play for repetition.
Forced, but happy with this, I had hoped black would play this so I could play Bd3 and swap off more pieces. I've already lost the belief in the win here, which cannot be a good sign.
Hi everyone!<n><n>This is just so agonizing.  I came very close here to ending my losing streak with Coach Ion.  Incredibly the only real mistake I made in the game was to resign it!  I did keep in my game notes the analysis I made before the decision to resign so I will show them to you so you will at least see just what prompted my decision.  I kick off with 1. e4 and Ion gives me the Robatsch Defense.
4.  Nf3 - the last time I faced this opening against Coach Ion I played f4.  The game went like this:- http://gameknot.com/annotation.pl/castling-into-it?gm=20912
14. ...... Kxg7 - the trade takes place as planned.
15. ...... Nxd5 - pawn trade.
20. Kxg2 - a trade of bishops immediately took place after the queen trade.
Black offers an exchange which also restricts the bishop, I think I'll take it
Black resigned
Blunder. Let's see why.
I thought of annotating this game, and I decided myself to do it after seeing the comments on the puzzle (#89083) I created about it.<n>I hope you enjoyed, let me know what you think about it.<n>Sorry for any possible grammar mistakes.
I play Black in this quick play game. I wasn't really focused on the opening and was trying some barmy ones to see what happened.
White defends and I bring up a pawn, which is not defended and white takes advantage.....
A pawn down and in a good position.
I think this is where white loses the game, I lose a pawn, but I gain a huge amount of tempo
White has his queen swap but I have the development
I was hoping for this, I couldn't see any alternative for white in hindsight, but white has such stunted development I am happy.
A natural reply, stopping P-Q5 and opening a line for the KB to develop.
Checking the King and attacking the Queen. T. M. looked disgusted as he resigned... not that he lost to her, but that it happened so darn fast!
The 5th Game between Graham and myself.  This one was fairly long but i tried to hold on to a game i really should've resigned.
Prepares development of the bishop
Dont really like to move my queen this early but i thought i would give it a try.  We are 2 for 2 in our four games so i was playing for a win. ( or so i thought ) lol.
I really should not move my queen so early but felt i needed to try get in early for the win,  I was wrong :-)
The pawn position has lots of weaknesses with the backwards pawns.
Time for a fork.  I was happy to see this and i thought i would have a better chance.  I have been pushed around a bit so far.
I thought it best to exchange when you are a piece up.  With every exchange the difference becomes bigger.
Here it is.  Wait for it.............
I actually thought at this  stage that if i hold on long enough he might slip and let me back in.  Even though i have an extra piece they are not active so his pieces are a lot more valuable.
An the pain is over.  Well played mate.  Thats 3 : 2 in your favour.  The next game i pulled one back. :-)
20... h6 isn't much better; After 21. Bxh6 gxh6 22. Qxh6 black is in deep trouble. Best, probably, would be 20... Nf6, adding defense to the h-pawn. 20... g6 opens up dark-squared holes that white will use in a mating attack later.
After a queen trade, black would be left with the centralized minor pieces and a stronger position.
Forced. This weakens the kingside pawns, but black has no other defense.
The irony is that black is not in check and is a move away from delivering a mate almost identical to the one white is preparing. But his queen isn't in position, and he has no time.
Letting me trade means the e-pawn will not easily turn into a monster. On the other hand, I get to trade queens on my terms, which ends up costing black quite a few tempi
Quick development is of great importance, since seizing the open files besides the passed pawns on the e-file will be instrumental to make yours a danger before your opponent can attack you with his. The bishop on c4 helps preventing that black will castle short.
Black basically has no hope of castling any time soon, so he gets his rook into play like this instead. The king in the centre actually turns out to be a problem, though once I get my pieces to active squares with the help of my e-pawn.
But black opts for a different line of attack.
I missed this threat.   It wins a pawn, but Black still has decent play, I think.
It is here that Tarrasch now realizes he has walked into an opening trap. Watch him set Bogoljubow a pinned piece problem.
The remainder of this game is going to revolve around this pinned Knight on f6, which is Tarrasch's original idea.
?! - The matter of the pinned piece has been settled, it ends with a pinned Rook on f3. This, however, is an amazing miscalculation from Bogoljubow. He has obviously relaxed after the all the fun around f6 has been resolved.
Did Black overate this pawn in his calculations?
based opening of the tournament.
i see no better option, for white, than to follow the nature of this opening.
black has to counterplay fast
this is black objective, to open king-side.
rook cannot pass... But rook is also a vital protection against my queen. So it cannot takes my rook or go on d4
I offered draw... He accepted. Of course, black could not take any of my pawn: it would have permitted a system with my queen back on protection... and my b pawn goes to queen...<n><n>Good, interesting game...
The other alternative was Nxe4 which I think may have been prudent.  This continued attack is not so fierce as it seems at first sight.  White's main problem is the lack of piece involvement in the attacks.  I think 20.Be3! develops a piece with tempo, but Black is likely to respond to it with the same idea that works so well against 20.Ne6.
This accomplishes two things.  It allows Black the option of exchanging on e3, and it covers Bb6.
As long as not Ka7.  I actually have had decent results on many of the rook-for-knight exchanges.  My advice to anyone who is on the "bad side" of this exchange is to find the compensation that the exchange creates.  Here the knight is a valuable attacker, and when it dies, so does the immediate prospects for further white pressure.
Both white and black are performing their 3 opening goals in these moves and the next, so everything is going fine. Black plays to prevent white's e5 thrust, which would disrupt black's game.
The correct idea when 2 pieces are in contact is to not take, but to keep up the pressure. This move releases the tension, and gives black a solid game. However, it does not waste time.
This move tries to take advantage of the white's slight edge in development. It is failing however, because it allows black to take the initiative, and develop with tempo. Before conducting an attack, the best preparation is always necessary. Developing another piece would be the best move.
(?)Now this is a concrete tactical mistake, but takes some efforts to find why. This move creates tactical motifs that black can exploit. The d3 bishop is hanging by a thread, since the queen has difficulty holding on to it. The f4 pawn is also under attack after ...Nh4 hitting the queen. If you use the right method of calculation here, I am sure you can find the best move and the reason why. Here, I used quite a lot of time, and calculated the game right out to the line that happened in the game.
(!)The correct first move in the sequence, which wins the game by getting a decisive material advantage. Here, by using the right method of calculation, you will see that black wins nicely in the most challenging line, with a nice trick at the end. Try to STOP and do it now. If you remember especially to calculate the most forcing moves at each variation, the shocker to the opponent will not shock you very much.
(!!)And the opponent resigned, since the queen is lost, while the black queen escapes. The opponent here was rated 2100. It proves that you don't need to be able to visualize 10 moves ahead. The right way of calcualtion will help you play this way even if your absolute limit is 4 or 5 moves.
All book so far.
Development is basically completed for both sides now. The game proper begins here.
Freddy swaps down. Each exchange of course accentuates his material edge.
Switching the attack to the K-side on the black diagonal.
Here's where the game gets very interesting. I saw that he had 24... BxP with the X-ray attack on the R once the Q moves, but I also saw that I could defend with 25 N-K4. I know Master Freddy wouldn't just throw away the piece, so he must have sacrificed it for a reason, but I decided to take anyway and make him prove his attack would work. I assumed he had something in mind to N-k4, and he did.
...and the planned defense.
Smartly advancing his Pawns to gain additional promotion threats.
I have no choice...
It's a lost cause now, but this move inadvertently enables Master Freddy to construct a nice mate in 3. I was prepared to resign...
...but when Freddy announced a mate in 3 I decided to let him have the glory of a checkmate. It would be unfair to deny him that. If he had simply had a long, drawn-out, won ending I would have resigned rather than make him play another 20 moves.
A beautiful checkmate. And a fun game to play for me.
White has little other choice (because of black's bishops)
Again a move that I have had trouble to understand but for white 23. Rg1 is not possible fr the white queen would be trapped (23... Bf4 and the queen has no escape)
finally black takes the rook.
A good exchange for white.
If white takes the a pawn (35. Qxa7+, black plays 35... Ke8 and the game is over.)
This game was a lot of fun, so I'd thought I'd try writing another annotation. There are certain to be many errors here, but only through practice can we improve. This opening sequence started as Amsterdam attack until 2 b3, h5
This was a poor piece exchange. White has fixed black's position from me.
White is wasting time. Bg4 is no attack, it's just the best place to put the bishop.
Not a good choice.
This move (Petrov's defense) shores up the e4 pawn, and opens an egress route for the DSB.
I played this move to see how White would respond.  I looked at dxe4 instead, but liked the tactical challenges this posed for White more.  This move gives White more challenges and I think allows Black a good chance at a free pawn or forcing a queen trade with White giving up the castle.  I anticipated d4, Nc3, or maybe even f4 in response.
When you are down you should trade pawns, not pieces.  A more interesting play would have been d4 or perhaps exd5.
Instead of castling I could have continued development of my power pieces...
Now Black has a lot of firepower trained on the kingside's pawns.
Rxf2 is still the better choice.  Second best is Kxc3.  This move is a blunder.
In this game, I play black and open with a combination of moves that my Dad calls a "Bobby Fisher" opening (which is also called "Reti" when it is played for white, and can be the Old Indian in some variants).  It makes for a closed game.  I'm still experimenting with this opening for black and learning things as I go, and I'd truly enjoy your comments on the strengths and weaknesses of this opening for black.
The chess gods were smiling on me ... I saw the potential for a stacked Queen and rook along the diagonal ...
... and he didn't see it coming.
The rest of the game was spent making sure I didn't do anything stupid.
... but changed my mind and advanced the f pawn with the support of the rook.
My blind friend in seminary did the same move which is standard for the Caro Kann.  At this point I can't recall what I did in 1983 with the Blind Seminarian but soon after I had played with him I studied the Caro Kann.  I liked Sicilian and Alekhine's. I had decided for my brains to give up the Ruy Lopez since my father beat it every time with the King's Gambit.  I learned the King's Gambit from him and my records here on GK show I use it ALL the time against the insignificant Ruy Lopez. I had also studied the French Defense enough to see it was mostly a blockade like in Les Miserables by Victor Hugo when his book was written about something entirely different from chess.  I had read Rommel's book on being a Platoon Leader in WWI against the French and the French like blockades and retreating instead of fighting.  The French Foreign Legion is a gathering of exceptional troops and these troops of the French Foreign Legion are not included. However, in chess the French Defense is as it was in WWI against Rommel defeated and running behind barricades.
This is called the closing action from white instead of the engaging act from white to trade pieces.  White can do other moves to engage in conflict but in this case white is dealing with the Caro Kahn and white has many published responses to d5.  I confess my response here is what I would have to think the most about if I was Caro Kann (Black).  What is happening is I am responding to Black in the fashion I know I would have to WORK HARD as Black to get this opening just right!
This is a deviation from what I would do if I am black using Caro. It is not what I would do.  I would have done e3 to make an Infantry formation blocking and opening the King Bishop.  <n><n>The problem when somebody does something unexpected is amateurs do unexpected things and win from sheer chance or luck or the stupefying effect it has upon a person thinking all is fine until something jumps out like a cougar to attack from nowhere.  I had to think a bit about this move and even if it is in the book written as a standard I still felt it was premature.  So.....
This game is ongoing and is actually 13 moves ahead of all this.  I am annotating it now and making it public since GK let someone challenge me when I said I would decline all challenges.  Whatever anyone says about this game until the 10th move is so far behind the actual game.  I don't think Zugspitze or I would really care what is publically stated about what to do after what move.  When a game is played it is between the two and when this game finishes I will deliver the final annotation along with my worthy opponent, Zugspitze.  So hold your horses on this game until we end it and remember we are 13 moves ahead.  Remember you cannot counsel either one of us while this game progresses.  You may look at it but it is cheating if either one of us is helped along the way.  This is Gameknot policy for online chess.
This is a mobile knight and it is time to move him to greater arenas or greener grass...
Here I see the opening up on the entire king side of both of us and I am thinking instead of pushing on this side why not make my bishop available to BOTH sides at once...so
This is a way to re rook the rooks together and attack the stray pawn from black.  Blacks pawn has very little chance of promotion.  Black's pawn has all the faith to have his head taken off while I move forward.  It is an English thing to do in a gentlemanly fashion utilizing the French Guillotine.
I didn't feel any move Black would make would hurt me so what ever move he made I had seen (always anticipate your opponent's next move) already. So it's the King....
Predicted. I saw this as black's best move with his g4 rook.
Black is maneuvering his e4 rook (slow to maneuver as rooks are) to a better position to operate with his other rook. I see this! In the Army field of artillery (rooks in chess) have to have time to operate in sync with the advancing opposition. I am THRILLED!
I know how FA (LIGHT) in Field Artillery work.  I spent my life in the Army with FA (LIGHT) and IN (LIGHT) and Armor (Heavy). <n>Join the US Army to be an Army of ONE!
..to THIS side.
Whenever you see a line formation in the field of battle positioned forward and laterally against you you really have to start worrying about a Pickett's Charge in Gettysburg. Pickett was a Confederate General (Major General) who made an assault with a column three quarters of a mile wide against the Union troops of General (Major General) Meade in Cemetery Ridge in 1863. I don't have my infantry to attack at this point.  Neither does black so it is going to be a lock up in INFANTRY while the remaining PIECES take over.
I am not feeling good about this trade.  I have to trade now because I am minus a piece I wanted in the event it was passed up for a trade.
But of course a rook behind a passed pawn is a real problem....
Unless black is absolutely non compis mentis he'd lose.  I realized I have to respect my opponent.  I resigned.  <n>Long live the Caro Kann my favorite Black Defense against e4 open! I applaud Zugspitze for using it against me.  He is way ahead of the players who resort to Ruy Lopez and French Defense.  I'd like to have him on MY team!  <n>John
this game has some personal notes here and there; white is a player I battled on 3+10 blitz... I unexpectedly won a couple of games, so he trashed me back, which spurred him to challenge me to an unrated fight outside of blitz; so I complied, being rogue 1200 and all... for good measure: this full blood Sicilian fight is classified as ECO A40, unusual replies to 1. d4... Thanks a lot to Bert from Bay of Plenty, NZ... ;)
again in this somewhat Sicilian game, d5 disrupts whites' plans... the position is fairly equal...
white is oblivious, of the trap black has weaved...
This is a game played in the 49th Tournament on Gameknot. A game that was both interesting and short!
I see no true escape for Black without losing his rook...
The worst move of the game!  True, later moves toward the end gave up more material, but up 'till this point I felt pretty good about White's chances.  This move, and what followed, took all the wind out of White's sails.  Black takes control at this point.<n><n>My concern was getting the a5-Knight onto a more active square, eventually c5 or d4.  Therefore, I had to protect the a-pawn.  I spent a lot of time looking at Queen moves but couldn't come up with anything.<n><n>I simply could not get a clear picture of the board ... and any suggestions on how to do that would be greatly appreciated!  My opponent gave some good advice regarding playing over annotated master games.<n><n>Anyway, 26. Re3 seems to be the popular choice here ... but I'm not clear on how that allows Nb3 in the near-term.
36. Rb4 was at least a chance (not much of a chance to be sure).<n><n>White has three (3!) passed pawns, two of which are backed by Rooks ... and has managed to get into a dead lost position!!  Black's piece placement is perfect.
hehe, i know it so wellll
my favorite defense (so, you know you can't play it with me for next games ) :-)
2 pawns and an attack for the bishop... it is a good idea, of course...
scary, isn't it?
black still thinks about escaping the attack and grouping its force on the white king at the same time: seen how the three pieces are pointing undirectly on it?
defense again... for the last time
Ill have to admit that in this game I got a little lucky with an unusual mate
My strongest reply
He takes the pawn hoping to draw my queen in the center but I have other plans
I put a little pressure on it
White tries to stop this with this move.
White avoids this
Now I have a passed pawn on the c-file but c1 is double defended
Pinning his pawn to his king so he cannot make this manoveur.
I don't always play like this but it seemed appropriate
There's the fiancetto...Has anyone else seen this played?
I was enjoying this game
Time to reinforce + launch an attack K-side
I haven't finished yet! Compromising my own k- side for a good offense
This works for me as now his h pawn is vulnerable ...
Im aware of this
Its interesting that my attack on his k-side has left my own k-side quite skeletal
Doesnt see the danger?
Don't know why he does this
This is the main line.  Black, correctly, makes no show of wanting to keep the pawn, so white takes his time.  This develops the knight to the right square and attacks the center.  4. e4 is a good alternative.
This is the right move.  Black obeys the saying "Knights before Bishops".  Black takes the center and has not fallen behind in development.
Takes the pawn.
I think this is also book.  A viable alternative is 7. O-O.  This move is not a bad early queen move because black cannot exploit it's position (at least not immediately) and it is a centralization.    Note that the b4-square is covered by black's bishop, so the knight can't jump in, which is the way black usually tries to exploit white's queen position.
Hi everyone!<n><n>Two years ago, when my rating was in the 1500s I dreamed of getting at the very least an Expert Draw and possibly a win against an Expert.  Ion was the first Expert I played against and boy how green I was!  My very first game against him was Battle of the Wings in which we fought a close rook and pawn ending with Ion's kingside pawn majority closer to promotion than my queenside majority.  I therefore lost that game.  Since then it has been heartache, heartache and more heartache with me making some very silly mistakes in my games against him and there were a couple of games I could have drawn but I blew it big time.  Soon Ion was leading me by a mighty 13 points to ZILCH!  I repeat ZILCH!  Well, it is Zilch no longer and not even Ion can take that half point away from me.  This is happiness!  This game was a brevity (terminated in less than 20 moves but it was a forced draw by perpetual check).  Anyhow, I will start further commentary on move 7 when I played Nc3 in response to Ion's Rf8.
7. ...... Nd4 - and I also played this against Freddy.
Nakamura heats things up by playing the Muzio Gambit, a highly aggressive opening! White gains maximum initiative, but lets Black chop down the knight on f3. This is definitely not for the faint hearted!
A tactical skewer!
Now Nakamura is able to isolate te king from his other pieces, and he has those monstrous passed pawns on g4 and h3, ready to promote. It is pretty much a no brainer to know that Nakamura has the advantage in this position.
Hi everyone,<n><n>I decided to play the white side of this gambit against Master Freddy.  I lost a game with the black pieces against this opening so I decided to see how I would get on as white.  Freddy showed me how the gambit could be refuted.  First we play the Four Knights Opening so the action starts on Move 4.
7........ d5!! - this move is the refutation of this gambit.  Give back a pawn for the piece and blunt my attack.
29. Rg1 - .... but it does not get off the ground.  After playing this move I now see that if Nxe5, Rf7 then Freddy can play Rd7 stopping my rook from taking any pawns on his second rank.  After seeing nothing left in the tank I decide to give the game to Freddy.  At least this proves the unsoundness of the Halloween Gambit.
aha,ha i'm playing a 2 knight versus pawn game!???????/
Check....check,CHECKMATE....................!<n>Good game, randykasack. And until next time this is GatorWarrior and this is Not Sparta! Good Night!
Van't Krujis opening.  A little unusual, but I used to open this way frequently in my youth.
?  I don't think black can chase down the white horse, or should waste time trying.  Though pushing it against the far right side of the board while the pawns are on the left may be a decent long term strategy.  Black's king is better off shepherding pawns, or gutting the king.  Pg blocks any further movement of the h pawn.  So Pf should be promoted.
Sicilian opening.
This move didn't serve the purpose I thought it would have. I was looking to save my queen at the expense of the game. I removed any tension there might have been against the knight. I moved to a8 on the next turn, but it would have been much better to do that on this turn.
Computer analysis calls this move by white a "Blunder". It allows for the exchange of queens on c5 if I had played it correctly, but to do so would have required me to sacrifice my bishop on g5, my rook right where it is and offer my queen twice, the second time with check so that he had to take it. It would have extended the game and maybe I could have called it a moral victory.
Well I've never done this before, figured since it was one of my better games I'd give it a shot. I think this is the first game I've opened d4
at this point I saw it was a good time to start attacking
...And the long fight for the queenside has begun...
Sicilian, closed. <n>This is my way of avoiding theory lines I don't know good enough.
Although there was a Elo-difference of about 100 points, black didn't make many mistakes. You can see that it's very difficult to stop the white figures when the king side attack is already started.<n>The aim of Black should be to stop White's attempts to attack or to build up a counterattack at the queen side.<n><n>I hope you enjoyed the game. Questions or comments are welcome.
The N is checking, so my B is hanging. If I defend the B (say g6), after Nd6+ QxN comes e4, forking my minor pieces... very nice! So...
Ok, in order to prevent that I would have lost a dev move (say a5), opening a confrontation field wiht so many problems to solve... no, I better stand this.
Relocating my Ns while playing with his Q. But I play with fire...
? The good thing about a complex sac like this is the opponent wants to become creative, and in this case, this just helps me. I'l get rid of my sacced pawn for an exchange, when his R's are far from the f column for a couple of moves. What do you think, dear reader? :-)
I opted for this line instead. I see my N landing on d3+, BxN, QxB.
I can take the pawn and balance the game. I can play Nh7, theatening Qxd3 once the N is gone... But I opted for another line of attack.
Now is very funny the way I have to try to cahs the WB for a pawn. I'll have to work a little. Will I get it at last? Can you say it from here?
? The last mistake. From there, his N has no countergame. From e3, yes (Ne5). My opponent resigned here, sensibly.. a nice blitz higher rated op win. Thanks for reading.
Tactical opening.
Black plays for rapid development.
White is still uncastled and reaching an uncomfortable position due to the lack of support for the king. It is not an immediate problem, but the cookie will begin to crumble.
There's no rush.  The Rf7 isn't going anywhere useful, the Nh6 is offside, the Bc8 is useless and the Nd7 has few useful squares.  White's development, whilst discreet, is practically full and, with only 3 pieces off the board, the Black king is ominously exposed.
This is where this game diverges from the previous one.
Marshall offers Swiderski a chance to win two pieces for a Rook...
Swiderski now has a clear edge, with two connected passed Pawns on the K-side.
Now the passed Pawn becomes the final weapon Swiderski needs for victory.
A King's Pawn opening
fortunately for White, the rest of White's pieces are well protected, so the reign of terror from the enemy Queen is now over (though she is in a strong position)
!?!? This move releases the tension in the centre a little too early. However, Black does want to play aggressively and develop his pieces quickly too. The normal verdict of this move would probably be unclear.
? On principle, this decision looks quite odd. It isn't so much the material issue of two pieces and rook for the queen (and chaos on the board still), but the fact that black will trade off two developed pieces for the queen, with no immediate way to aggressively sustain the initiative. -CB.
In terms of piece play alone, it is hard to see how black can increase pressure. He opts to reroute the bishop to a6, but perhaps it won't really change all that much. Possibly black had to try and figure a way to soften the kingside up with the pawns and pieces, while keeping White tied up in the center. Whether or not that is even possible is hard to judge of course, but as it stands, Black's initiative is slowly disappearing.-CB
It is rather silly-looking that White has arranged his pieces passively but he has defended incredibly.
This is first time I see this in 4 or 5 year. I recall this type of position draw but my opponent disagree.
At this point I know the game will end in draw no matter how long it will take.
Most people would accept a draw here but not my opponent
Dmitry opens up with a queen's pawn game.
unexpectedly Dmitry takes my dPawn.
Dmitry takes with the pawn.
Dmitry takes with fpawn opening up the file for his rook to attack my queen.
Dmitry Zilberstein realizes it
time to get on the defense side.
I emerged out of the opening with better development and initiative, white decided to end the game soon after it forcing a draw by 3-fold repetition, I need to find some improvement because this line seams great for black...
Vienna gambit (C29), Kaufmann variation
N, already tried is bxc3 in Mayo Casademont Andreu (ESP) - Guadamuro Torrente Ana Isabel (ESP), Mondariz (Spain), 2005 which black eventually won, with the novelty played the resulting game is more open, let's see if it is a sound move...
cxd4 maybe better, with this reply white has a worst endgame if all pieces are exchanged
I recapture with the pawn on d7. This capture takes one of black's pawns away from the centre, not towards it. Now there should be a struggle for control of the open d file...
I don't quite understand this move. If white captures my knight, I can just recapture with my pawn on d7, un-doubling my pawns and improving my centre. It also gives me the chance to win another pawn with ...Nxd4, 17. bxd4, Bxd4.
White takes my pawn on e5. It's generally better not to swap pieces or pawns when you are material down, so I'm not sure this is a good idea.
takes another pawn but black has weak pawns hiself
i think it is a good piece
this is why i don't like castling, i think it is easier to defend your king when it is in the middle
my long attacking pieces have long paths and his do not, he does not even have bishops
he sees it and goes for a long attack of his own
chess not my favorite game because the rules want you to think certain pieces have certain values
Trying to attack my queen, I did not know this opening, so i chose to play what looked logical.
Setting up to be an aggressive game - White staking out the center, while Black is getting his pieces moving early.
White has been chasing Black's pieces around the board all game with his pawns, resulting in an advanced position. Where there is a pawn conflict, it will be between White's pawns on the 4th rank and Black's on the 6th, pushing the center of gravity of the battle towards Black's king. Black's pieces provide no help to him; they are perhaps a little more coordinated than White's, but not much. White still has an extra knight and his pieces are more centrally located.
The previous two moves White has ignored the Black threat on his b-pawn, which might have become an avenue for Black to breach White's defense and weaken the back rank. Black's attack has seriously been blunted, as the queen is back on the sixth rank and the bishop is little more than an obstacle White is working around. The move up of the c-pawn essentially made the b- and a-pawns irrelevant by breaking the chain with them, but White decides to consolidate his gains for a move.
White has opened up the middle with his attack on the queen, and now this game is largely a flanking action. White has a definite advantage, but Black has some possibilities to scratch and claw for a draw. He might be well off to try to start trading away pieces.
The dust has settled, with White up a piece and the exchange. Black has few credible attacks here and essentially no hope of winning. However, his pawns might offer some hope of clogging up the middle and getting a draw from this mess. Moving a pawn to the 5th rank would blunt White's attack.
But Black misses the opportunity, and might as well resign now. As this is an online game, however, what do we expect?
Book so far.
So far, so good.
This constitutes the Mikenas Pawn Storm. Until this game, it was *thought* to be a promising line for White.
White presses forward in this variation, trying to keep Black's game disorganized. But Holm has a riposte up his sleeve.
All standard for the Mikenas Pawn Storm, so far. But...
Holm's brilliant counter. Partos will find it very hard after this to find a safe haven for his King. This is the move that breaks the variation's back.
The smoke of battle has cleared, and Holm's material advantage is decisive. "Resigns" would probably be Partos's best alternative, but he drags the game out for a bit longer.
So this game was a mini-tournament created by Pawnbandit.<n>It was a King's Gambit Accepted.
In this game, Pawnbandit has agreed to annotate his half of the game and I will annotate my half of the game at pivotal points as play develops. I write comments for the White pieces and Pawnbandit commentates for the Black pieces..I have some comments for black as well. To make this easy I will put Pawnbandits comments in brackets.
This seems to be the berlin defense. I'm not positive. It was definitely the favorite for black in this tournament.
This line follows.
This is the best move for white. Anything else is trapped
Castling on the king side would be an obvious mistake now. White's advantage is this game is quick development. This defense slows it down.
(This sort of early kingside thrust is often seen in 19th century games and has lead to quick wins for Black)
(Black is now a pawn up and in a favourable position. )<n>However I did not feel this way.
This is good for white, now the queenside is opening up.
(At this stage of the game it looked like White's pieces were tied up defending against the kingside pawns so that despite the weaknesses on Black's queenside they were at the moment unexploitable. White presses home his advantage on the kingside.)
This is possibly a mistake for white. I have played Na6.
Guarding his passed pawn. This gives white the tempo back.
This leaves behind the c5 square<n>(Hoping to exchange queens and move into a winning end game. )
(A terrible blunder and a losing move for Black. Defending the c5 square was critical in this phase of the game )
If black takes. Rxa7 and white has mate in a few moves.
Black is lost now.
This represents my final game in this mini-tourney.  In my previous game against nuntar, he was victorious.  I had hopes of doing better this time.  As usual, the action begins on move 8.
As I have learned, the key for White in this opening is to develop quickly to take advantage of the Q sac and to keep Black from having an active Queen.
20. Bd1  With this move, Black's Queen is no longer playing a significant role in the game.  I'm not as developed as I would like, but I've accomplished one of my goals.
?!  This move opens lines, but is black ready for this?
Clearing the knight out of d7 has a consequence that black overlooked -- each of the next FOUR white moves helps his development, with check...
...but wins the exchange as well, while retaining a dominant position AND a strong attack.  Black is busted.
Black is trying to get those last two pieces into the game...
?  Black may be lost anyway, but what is the point of this move??  He should've played b5, which would at least have been consistent.
If black leaves this pawn alone, this move prevents black's king from running anywhere onto the 5th rank.
Should have played this last move I think.  But, as Def Leppard says, "But it's too late..."
?  "TOO LATE FOR LOVE!"  Oblivious to the nasty threat contained in h4; black's best hope was to play h5.
! Black resigns, 1-0.  Black has only one legal move, and after Kh6, 22. Nf7 is mate.  Truly a punishing lesson on the dangers of falling behind in development!
And he finally takes.
He takes back this way, rather than leave a weak backward pawn on a semi-open c file, with exd5.
He takes back.
He takes back.
He takes back.
He takes.
And this time he offers a draw, which I accept. There doesn't seem much either side can do.<n><n>Many thanks for reading my annotation. I hope you found it interesting, educational and enjoyable. Please rate it on the star system and leave a comment or two.
...and I succeed in this. I thought the only way to repel her was to offer an exchange, and I succeed in that, but my pawn is a potential weakness, with it being so far advanced...
...but he castles kingside and sees to that. However, I have more developed pieces out, with two pieces on the third rank.
The black king is hemmed in but I don't think white is in a position to take full advantage
Check mate. Had i of noticed white would of lost due to lack of development
A PAWN IS LOST.!!
The lost pawn queens. I suspect all lines were lost after my king was decoyed away from the centre but my continuation wasn't the best attempt to save the half point.
usually leads to a centre game if black takes....
takes a diagonal
takes the long diagonal, and now the material advantage is his, but i control most of the board
not the best defence here, d5 is actually book, while d5 does give me back a pawn, it opens up blacks pieces very nicely, ne7 leads to an even more cramped position
this move was intended to move my queen away, but look at his king, completely trapped by his own pieces, and ready to fall
game over<n>hope you enjoyed this one, i think this game really demonstrates the importance of space and development over material<n>Belacqua17
She takes my pawn back.
Total waste of time.
She takes it .
Alternative variation: 22... Qb7 [/\ 23... Rc8 24... Qe4! =]
The Scandinavian, or, more descriptively, the Centre-Counter Defence.  I don't have very good memories of this opening, having been taught a lesson with it by Jovanka Houska in a Rapid Play game a few years ago.
?!  I think book is 3. d4 to prevent Black's next move, but it works out OK for me.
Causing me to have to waste time thinking about how best to block the check, bearing in mind that ...Bg4 has often caused me grief in this opening.
This contests control of d5 and provides a bolt hole for the adventurous Queen.
This is beginning to look like a Caro-Kann, another opening against which I struggle, as Black presents few targets for attack..
Now, if White swaps on g6, Black gets doubled pawns but also a half-open file to exploit with a rook or two, so I don't take immediately but ...
This is a strong attacking position for this Bishop, supported as it is by the Q on c7 but it doesn't actually threaten anything serious.
!  After the game, my opponent congratulated me on this sacrifice, which enabled me to generate considerable pressure.  As previously noted, it exploits the uncastled position of Black's king to gain tempi.
The Queen goes to the rim, where she is less powerful, but does attack White's a-pawn.  White also has to be careful about abandoning the defence of the Rook on e1.  Yesterday's Guardian featured a nice finish by Bronstein which exploited the fact that all Black's pieces were over on the Queenside, including the Q on a5.  I wish I'd seen it before I played this game!
Finally Black castled.  Now, if I'd seen Bronstein's game, I'd undoubtedly have launched an all-out assault on Black's castled King.  I thought about trying to build up such an attack but decided it would be too easy to repel, so continued with my strategy of pressuring Black and exploiting the open c-file.
Black hastens to create a passed pawn.  I knew I was heading for defeat now.  It was just a question of playing for time and a lucky chance.  I had about half an hour left, my opponent a quarter: plenty yet to force a win.
Black resigns knowing that next is <n>16. ... Kg8<n>17. Re8+ Bf8 for the block<n>18. Qxf8#<n><n>I think my improvement in this game was 12. Re1. I'm still not sure how I figured that out. Reviewing the game I was surprised when I saw what I had done. It's definitely encouraged me to think more unorthodox.
[!?] This move, similar to the Sozin Attack in the 2...Nc6 lines of the Sicilian, has declined relatively in popularity compared with 6.Bg5 and 6.Be3.  In former times it was something of a favorite with Bobby Fischer, and was held to be one of the more aggressive lines against the Najdorf Sicilian.  It tends to discourage Black's planned ...e7-e5 advance, but at the cost of presenting Black's b-pawn with a target, unless White is prepared to pay a price in time.
The target having dodged, betimes, Black makes this advance anyway!  GM O'Kelly de Galway called this 'the most active continuation preparing a counter-attack on the White KP [e-pawn].'  Bobby Fischer himself played this line against Robert Byrne in the Sousse Interzonal, 1967.  Also playable here are 7...Be7 and 7...Nbd7.
'The point.'  Black wins a pawn.  But check out Black's game right now.  One piece developed, the rest all at home.  White has all her minor pieces in play and, ready to castle short immediately, is only one move away from choosing to castle long.
[!] It had to come, and it had to be sooner rather than later.  Everything is poised for an all out attack.  But that is not to say Black Black is not ready to face this onslaught.  Things have suddenly become very interesting!  Should Black accept the sacrifice?  In calling Black's reply a mistake, the GK engine offered this alternative with a near-even assessment: 13....fxe6  14.Qh5ch Ke7 -(I'll revisit this in my next note)  15.Bc5ch Nxc5  16.Nxc5 Qb6  17.Nxe6 Nc6 -(Not much improvement can be got from 17...Nd7  18.Rhe1 Nf6  19.Qf5)- 18.Nxf8 Raxf8  19.Qxd5 Kf6  20.Qe6ch Kg5  21.Rd5ch Kh4 - the limit of the engine's vision, and so it looked even.  It isn't of course: fen="5r1r/1b4p1/pqn1Q2p/3R4/1p5k/1B6/PPP2PPP/2K4R w - -" (See comment)<n>22.Qh3#.  From this it might appear that Black did well to leave the knight alone...
In effect the e4-knight is pinned; for instance 15....Nf6  16.Bc5ch wins the Black Queen.  Hopelessly placed, Black resigned.
When ahead swap pieces not pawns. They should be queened.
When ahead trade pieces. 43. Rh6  Rxh6 44. Bxh6 & black resigns because he can't cross the g file to stop the pawns.
Black takes the bait & is mated.
I'm a 1. d4 player. Always have been. Lately, I've been studying the Queen's and Nimzo Indian systems - and I ran across this game. I've never heard of this Sashin fellow, but the name Korchnoi cetainly caught my eye. I have come of the opinion that the strong GM types consider the Queen's and Nimzo Indian systems a little slow and boring (and most often drawish), but if it's good enough for Korchnoi it's good enough for me. Or so I thought......This is a wild game. Sashin plays solidly, and delivers an extremely subtle, but beautiful 23rd move which starts the fireworks. Korchnoi gets through the opening in solid position, and then goes totally nuts with a brutal attack during the middlegame (at one point delivering 11 consecutive checks!) which marches the white king all the way across the board. Then, just like THAT! - all of his initiative is gone, and Sashin's awesome 23rd move gem tells the tale of victory. Was it brilliant insight into the position? or was it just dumb luck? I don't know....but this IS a pretty game! As always, my meager analysis will be limited. I hope you enjoy:)
Another natural move which, although it creates TONS of tactical possibilities, is very comfortable for black.
While down the bishop pair, black has maintained initiative and now brings his heavy pieces into the action with a solid threat on d4.
Black claims his prize!
Here is where it gets interesting. White has been pushed around for far too long, and delivers a threat of his own at f7. Black must eliminate this threat.
! And now for the REAL fight. White has a ton of ammo directed at black's king, and at f7 in particular. Black plays 22...Nf5 to attack the white Re7, but more importantly to clear the d file for his rook.
!! This move is so subtle, yet extroidinarily strong. White threatens 24. Rxb7  winning the black queen. This move ends up being white's saving grace at the end of the game.
Of course, black sees the danger regarding his own monarch, but CONTINUES TO ATTACK! In this position, the board appears to be total offense by both sides. Defense? What is defense?
?!?!?!?! This move just looks and feels so right, but according to Fritz loses the game for black! I won't bore you with a thousand lines of Fritz variations, just watch as it plays out:)
.........! this gorgeous discovered/double check which is the dagger through the heart. Black resigned at this point, as 35...Kf8 loses to 36. Rg8# and 35...Kh8 loses to 36. Rh7#. What a truly wonderful game! I have gone back and played through it several times, and each time I am convinced that white is busted. I just know that Korchnoi has an irresistable attack. Then I just revel in Sashin's 23rd move and his dogged stubborness as he just waits for his chance to deliver his one and only shot at victory, and succeeds. Man, I love chess:) - Thomas
My opponent opted for a queens gambit declined. The next few moves are common book opening moves
I was White in this game where I pawnstormed my opponent.
This is the most logical response, but symmetry is usually favorable to the side with the tempo. The Sicilian Defense (1...c5) is the best way to try for an advantage as Black.
The most logical move. I develop a kingside piece while attacking a pawn in the centre.
Supposedly this is advantageous to White, but this move avoids the well analyzed main lines of the Ruy Lopez. Instead, Black accepts doubled pawns and a kingside pawn minority, in order to leave my bishop on an unimportant diagonal, and Black will usually have more experience in this opening than a normal Ruy-Lopez Player.
It's hard for Black to find active moves in this position. I thought Nf6 was his best try.
Black is playing passively, while I already have plans of storming the kingside.
Black's defense is too late.
My attack comes just in time.
Black's queenside attack attempt is nothing.
A better chance is fxg6, but Black is still lost because after hxg7, an array of tactical threats will beat Black to a pulp.
1. ...... e5 - David tries me out with the English Opening by opening with 1. c4.  This opening can transpose into many other openings such as the Reti, etc.
9. ..... e4 - an interesting conversation took place between me and David in the chat: Jo: Thanks.  Now, I really ought to block off that annoying b1-h7 diagonal and put a bit of a cramp in your position - at least for a while!  David: That's a good move Jo and the one I would have played for the reasons you have set out.  It irks me to have to withdraw my knight - for now at least.
10. ..... Re8 - the conversation now continued: ..... hmm, but that pesky steed has counter-attacked my pawn.  I did agonise over which piece was the right one to defend it but I think it is good to at least put a rook on a half-open file.  I just hope I made the right choice here.  David said: I think Bf5 was very marginally the better move to support the battle for control of the centre.  But your choice was perfectly OK.
19. .... Kh8 - Dave said that all he could do was try and improve his position but he did not think he would get anywhere unless I over-extended myself.  Me shuttling Henry from h8 - g8 proved I had no intention of doing this.  After playing his rook to b5 Dave told me he would settle for a draw.  I put Henry back on g8 and made my offer of which Dave kindly accepted.  Interestingly enough, Gameknot analysis stated that my last move was an inaccuracy.  So it turned out to be a very good draw offer in more ways than one.  For me it has been the tale of two buses.  After my epic draw with Freddy in 2010 I had to wait another three years for my third Draw, which was against Skorpio, now along comes the second bus - all in the space of two weeks.  In order to increase my tally of such scalps, I need to be a little more consistent.  Anyhow, David played very well and it was a good instructive game on how to defend properly.  I hope you all have a good read.  Bye for now - Joanne
the philidor a ok game
In this game, I am black.  My Opponent isn't very good and I know a fair amount of chess, so I have a clear advantage in that department.  I still make dumb mistakes and don't see everything though, so I am putting this game up so that I can get some advice.  Also I make a pretty huge blunder and come back successfully due to my opponent making many mistakes.  Any pointers will help, so please comment.
This exchange was not optimal, and against a stronger player I may have been lost right here, but I have more central control while my opponent has made no attempt at developing his pieces at all.
in hindsight, b5 may have been better, but pawn play is one of my weakest points in chess and I don't see how this is a bad move.
My opponent didn't have to move his knight, but it sure does help me.
This is my big blunder.  I was completely oblivious to the knight attacking my queen.  Moving the queen or playing Re8 would've been so much better.  However, I was still far ahead, and what good is it being a queen up if you don't have yours in an advantageous position.
My opponent, while up in material, is not taking advantage of it.  His queen and black bishop have not moved since the start.  This game would have been completely different otherwise.
Of the two captures available, this is the worst.  Now, not only do I promote my pawn, but it also puts his king in check.  Qxh5 would still let me queen my pawn, but this move lets me get momentum as well.
And this just makes it easier.  Even though he was already lost, this move by white is so much worse than Qxf2.  I have no idea what my opponent was thinking.
My development is a bit weird and slow - preventing Ng5 here.
but the knight is lost anway, though it ate a few pawns before dying.
Let's see how his 1-3 pawns fare against my extra bishop...
The king's only option is to step away from the pawn. So he plays for time on the other side of the board
with material advantage it is always good to exchange pieces.
Black has a strong attack.
A lost game simply because key pieces were taken out of the game by whites clever positioning. My queen was on the run, so to speak, and I never really recovered. I would appreciate your comments on anything you would have done differently.<n><n><n>White starts with (A04) the Reti opening.
White takes control of the centre
and I make what I think was a good move at the time
now this is where it all gets interesting and in all fairness the game is lost on my part (I don't know it yet). My queen is out on a limb and now immediate pressure forces a retreat.
but no, I don't retreat
not much choice
...this move forces me into a right corner. My queen is now out of the game with no home to put any pressure on my opponent what so ever.
I try to contiunue what development I have left
white takes my pawn
My queen can retreat, but still out of play - the game is pretty much over for me at this stage. I am out of position and have lost material. I have no attack, but I look at the position for some time and attempt to make some sense from it....
I stell a pawn feeling the exchange is nescesary to prevent white gaining an extra queen (eventually) and protecting d8.
so far its been an equal game more or less. maybe slight advantage for white. when i analysed this position after this game i was certain that blacks next move is not that good. My iron friend confirmed it.
this looks like a good choice and during the game i thought it was best too.however in the analysis later fritz suggested 12...Nc6. heading towards development and not material.Looking closely at the conclusion of the game i agree because whites initiative is getting bigger.
Its all over.White threatens mate in h7 and the only response is black to give his queen and rook for the knight. for example 19..RXf7 20.Nxf7+ Qxf7 21.Qxf7. If he tries 19...Nf6 then 20. Qh6+ Nh7 21.Qxh7#.Here black resigned. <n><n>So if we see the game here black made three errors that cost him the game real quickly. First of all a slight error of playing 9.d5 instead of d6, then another inaccuracy of 12...f5 instead of Nc6 and finally the most important error 14...Ng4 instead of Nc6. One error led to another and finally blacks position collapsed. He could have put up more of  resistance later but in the end it was that small mistakes in the opening that led the position to get worse and worse until it was too late. In blacks defence i think that 16...g6 and 17.Qc7 were very  nice defencive ideas but they simply didn't work.
This is a book move and is made most of the time, depending on how black plays, Nf3 was considered also.
I play e3 protecting my d4 pawn and opening way for my lsb to be developed.
b5 played protected by pawn on a6 and c6. This also allows Black to develop his pieces on his Q side.
develops his N in front of his Q. I thought he might of played Bg4 here.
Q takes pawn  and I wonder how I can defend this move. he took this move over taking with his rook, which could have been played and not getting his Q out early. The Q takes seems to be best.
this simple move does the job to protect the loss of my R if I had left his attack of a skewer not stopped.
exd4 pawn takes pawn
Rxa5 takes back Q
Bxa1 takes back his R.
dxe3 pawn takes pawn
Now I get to attack! Bh5+ I down in score -1 but my pieces are developed especially my R.
Kd8 played
Why not I think trade a N for B.
N takes pawn attacking my lsb.
dsb takes pawn attacks his R.
...this is a quick game....where black has to be a little more careful of nasty tactics...
..should have played this move earlier...but i didn't..
..Nxh4 is only good for black so the very nasty move is played instead...
This was a short game that was played between me and Kartal_ist. It was such ashame that he timed out as I would learn a valuable lesson on playing the open Sicilian regarless of the outcome.
The Taimanov variation.
This is a Latvian counter gambit Nimzovich variation mini tournament game and all games are starting from this posotion.
This old-fashioned opening exposes White's Queen to Black's pieces. Black tends to gain an advantage in development as a result.
26. b3 - this pawn moves to evade capture from the witch and remains on this square for the rest of the game.
31. Qd4 - time for some Witch Ejection, folks!  I offer a queen trade and my opponent accepts it.
Don't you just love those beautiful combinations we see in an attack against the enemy king? In this game we see Isaac Boleslavsky go down with the white pieces against Anatoly Ufimtsev, where some good attacking play and even a nice queen sacrifice lead to some pretty fireworks!
The Rubinstein variation.
This is where the real fun starts.
Every chess player experiments with openings at sometime. We all search for the one opening that will give us a big advantage the majority of the time. Well, their ain't one! Once you learn that and play for equality and maybe a minimal advantage or initiative the sooner you'll move on to solid chess. I myself learnt that when playing the color black here. I was trying to hard to pull off swindles and turn the tide towards black's favor. <n><n>When learning an opening its important to understand its goals and purpose. The opening here is King's Gambit, Falkbeer Counter Gambit. <n><n>The Falkbeer is a hard opening to understand for lots of intermediate players. --- more on this after the opening moves.
Attacking the future dangerous pawn.  Notice how this move blocks black's queen from helping with king side defense if needed. The black queen can only move to a5 or c4 now.
This way opens up the black fortress and looses more material 4 vs 1 for a deficit of 3 points.
This move gives it to white. Better was moving the f rook sideways. White would still have the much better game. This allows a wholesale trade off of pieces and white comes out with a bishop up still. When down material don't trade off as you limit your options to pull off a swindle or a perpetual check to save the game.
The moral of the story: Play an opening the way its meant to be. Here white was able to do that. Black did not play the gambit as it was meant to be played. Black wasted time playing around with her queen and when she was needed for defense, she was away.
Hi Everyone!<n><n>Ok, not quite the lady at Flambards but nevertheless, Cristiana certainly ended up as Lady Bountiful at the end of this game.  She was playing her mentor, Skorpio47 (aka Klaus) in a Walking the Walk and Learning to Run Welcome MT and she managed a Master Draw against him.  So, I want to learn from Cristiana's experience and just see how she did it.  This MT was a themed tournament called The Dutch Defense.  So, how did she do it?  Well read on......
11. Rxh5 - meanwhile Klaus' heavies start to gather on the h file.  Can Cristiana muster a good enough defense before all three pile down on it or will Old Matey descend on h7?   We shall see.
After a heavy defeat its hard to face ones demons but if we wish to improve face them we must. So two weeks after the game has finished I finally have got round to annotating it for the Walk the walk thread.
Both 6....c5 and 6....Nbd7 seem more popular here but the move played is in keeping with stalhandske's style. A little bit non mainstream with plenty of potential for piece activity. <n>Still in the opening book ECO reference D37
I'm out of my book now so my loss in only another 9 moves is particularly galling as in this position white looks to have equality at the least. Though I think my esteemed opponent would be happy with his position due to his piece activity.
11.Qa4 may have been much better here and after the game I found in the GK database a game played with this move. When I played 11.Bc4 I saw the Qa4 ch and wasn't too unhappy about the Q exchange. Interestingly both the GameKnot engine and Houdini 2 give my move as imprecise going from a +0.20 to a -0.10
The defining move of the Cambridge Springs variation.  Black threatens a number of strokes, including Bb4, winning a pawn, and dxc4, discovering an attack on the Bg5.
But this defends it adequately for now.
!  I like this move for white -- it showcases just how weak black's queenside is, and how poorly positioned black's queen is.
... and now I get my passed pawn.  White can respond Qxf5, but after the exchange of queens black plays Rxd4 with a big advantage!  I'm pretty happy with the outcome of all of this, although I'd be lying if I said I had planned it all this way.
This kicks the queen off of her perch, and off of the e-file entirely.
!!  Sacrificing my queen *on purpose* for the very first time on gameknot!  After 32. Kxf1 Rb1  33. Qd1 Rxd1# is checkmate!  <n><n>Thanks to flanders for a good game and the chance to do something amazing!  Hope you enjoyed it, too.
3...c5 is the main line, but this move is less drawish and equally good
24. Qxa7 Ra8 is not good for white, so I can avoid the exchange
! Now the perpetual is no longer possible, white has to exchange down into a lost endgame
My opponent has delayed castling to attack me  so my plan is to attack while the king is still in the centre and I have the better development. If I wait his extra space advantage and attacking pieces could become a problem
? This tactic doesn't work if he simply plays Qd4 then I am lost. He attacks my knight, protects his c4 bishop and still threatens Ng6+ winning the exchange. I can't defend against all of these threats. Funny how a slight innacuracy can be the turning point on the game.
This seems strong, two of my pieces are attacked, he is protecting c3 and it looks like I must lose material but luckily for me there is an only move and I find it
I saw that If he plays cxb4 then I play  Qxb4+ Kf1  Nd2+ Kf2 Nxc4 getting the piece back with a strong attack. My opponent also saw this and played g4, which attacks my bishop but he gives me have a forcing move
! Iit helps if you look first for the most forcing moves before anything else. This move forces the queen back and starts a combination based on the weakness of e2 and black's strength down the e file
The combination involves getting rid of the protector of e2  after which it is all over
1...... e6 - voila!  This is the French Defense.  The purpose of this move is to support d5.  If pawns are exchanged on d5 you get the Exchange Variation where black has a pawn controlling e4 and c4.
15. Kxf2 - after a bit of expansion on the queenside the queens are exchanged.  There are a few surprises in this quiet position and for me, not very pleasant.  I am about to cede control of the c file.
34. Ne2 - I have a choice of f3 or e2 - my gut feeling tells me that e2 is the right move.
Down six points a queen trade is ill advised for white.  Black would also gain by doubling white's pawns.
A solid way for white to proceed. In this opening, white is advised not to move the c pawn. This is very counterintuitive (c4 looks soooo tempting!), but in fact it just helps black in developement, with accurate play (and at club levels). White has Bb5+ as his more aggressive try, and I fear it a little. f6 would be my response.
My still-not-completely-sure-why-it-is-not-defendable favourit. Here, the answer I kind of fear most is Bb5+. If any minor piece interposes, dxe6 is a proper "dark hole". So c6 must be the answer, and... it's another story. I test my opponents here: if they don't play Bb5+, they either don't know the opening, or they are going for slow, routine, passive play. I will catch those... ;-)
The "automatic" move black is just waiting for, ignoring the B check.
This is a more positional approach. It 1) restricts the b5 threat, 2) opens the way for the BQ to b6 or c7 - her's optimal square. Bc5 instead allows d4 with tempo, but I think it's playable (my B will go to b4, exchange the N, and then, with Ne4 attacking c3 I'll have won some games. The key of my attack is to align Bd6 and Qc7 on white's castled K. But I can wait for the white's d pawn to be moved to play Bd6, and in the meantime I try to get the most of my tempoes. I also know that Ng5 or Bg5 will become an annoyance I have to be aware all the time. And I know I'll castle queenside and that I will launch a pawn's storm on g. This is what I'll say if I'll see this position, because I play it a lot. Of course, it must have some problem, somewhere. I just wonder how high the rate must be in order to meet it.
Perfect. Going for castling wihtout thinking in the downsides. Ok I don't say white has any kind of disadvantage or weakness. But he is playing my game. My Qside must be attacked, or I'll buid up my dev undisturbed.
With this move white gives up any possibility to take advantage of the e coulmn for a long time, and he leaves to me what I prevented from him with h6: Ng4. Of course, it will leave d5 exposed.
This is anoher typical mistake. White's counterattack is too slow. White thinks he can defend the Kside, and go for a slow counterattack. He waits me to move the Nf6 elsewhere in order to play d5. Seen this way, his "dull" attack on a can be a treat: come and fall for it, you'll be greeted with a winner.
This has the downside that the f colum becomes open and occupied. But it leaves a very weak pawn in e3 and g3 with no defence. Just the kind of game white could have played against me if I'd not played h6.
Slam! This was my bet. If gxB, Rg8+ should begin a very strong attack. And Rg8 is coming anyway. Suddenly white feels his weaknesses and realized he was too overconfident.
we arrived to an old position in king's gambit accepted. <n>h4 is often played. <n>this position is not played nowadays as it gives poor chances for black to win, even to draw
a good move ! white sacrifies a piece to open the f column and gain time.
here it is, black are ready to sign for a queen exchange as they have two points advance.
white looks to c7, but let black exchange queens<n>i was expecting Qg3
black takes a breath <n>white cannot take c7 immediatly ? : Nxc7 , Kd7, Nxa8,  Qxf1, Bxf1 etc.
a passive move. i was expecing Rf1. this gives the chance to black to achieve their development
for the first time of the game, i have the initiative.<n>the rook a1 never moved !!
white have a passed a pawn
with this move, the d5 pawn is now not defendable
the c4 pawn is now a target for the Black bishop<n>black have a winning final.
The crux of the opening is based around white's next move.
And a beautiful discovered attack wins black the queen. At this point black resigns.<n><n>Note that this opening is fairly dangerous to play because it allows white to develop much quicker than black. However, it is a fun little opening that basically wins you the game when it works!
If e5 is now allowable, let's get the B on a good diagonal. Very good, this guy knows how to play.
? I know this kind of defence, and in some moves it will turn in my favour.
...with another idea in mind. Let's see if he falls for it.
Here, I played a move for the posterity, for good or for bad.
This game was no easy win for me!  The middlegame got very complicated and I very nearly got Glenda trapped.  Luckily I managed to force a queen trade later on which gradually turned the tide in my favour.  Finally we ended up in a K & P ending where even though I was a pawn up I had to avoid one last trick from Bob - I pull out a hidden talent from my sleeve, the joblock!  This finally forced Bob's resignation on the grounds of ruinous loss of material.
19. ........... Qf5 - and Glenda still cannot get away from defending pawns!  This time she is called for the defense of the h5 square.
23. ......... Qd3 - now Glenda will be lost, but thankfully in exchange for the Wicked Witch of the West!
Beginning piece development to the king side.
I don't want to trade queens since black is cramped and I have better attack chances.
I'm sure this was unexpected on my part but starts to open up blacks king side.  I'm not sure this is the best move but I felt Bxf8 Rxf8 Nxg7 Qxg7 and black is holding on.
When making this move I realized the black could eventually play ... c4; for now this threat is hypothetical due to B:c4
Destroying black's defense
The game is over.
The black has won a bishop early on but underestimated white's initiative on the king's side.
English opening.
simple battle for the middle board, here whites have a little advantage.
This is a game out of two in a team match (I annotated both). Black makes an opening inaccuracy in Sicilian defence, and then slips for a combination that combined two common Sicilian tricks.
! The start of a long combination which does not seem to win any material against best defence, but gives me a good attack and keeps black too busy to castle.<n>Black has two choices: Bxg2 as in the game, and 11 ... Nd5 12. Bxe7 Qxe7 13. Nxd5 Bxd5 (exd5 14. Nf5) 14. Bxd5 exd5 15. Nf5! and black is in trouble.
Kd8 had the disadvantage of occupying an important retreat square for the queen, and after 15. Kxg2 fxg5 16. Nd5! b4 17. axb4 Qb5 18. Ra5 Qb7 19. Kg1 white wins a pawn in a good position.<n>(One last time and I'll quit bugging you:) What would you play here as white? (See next move annotation, I didn't play the winning move)
White attack is extremely easy to play, while black has to make a tough choice literally every move!
I hope you enjoyed the game, please comment on the game as I probably have lost of mistakes in analysis.
A short game this but I think it demonstrates the advantage of early pressure at a lower-middling level of play on the mental side.
Not having dealt with this opening before I elect to play this rather than my usual Nc3, looking to restrict the early pawn movement.
I never like this kind of play early. While you should never let your pawns be isolated, this kind of play is too safe and restricts your own options.
This move actually slowed me down. I should instead have continued to develop my midgame pieces. Still, with the advantage firmly in my hands I elected for a conservative continuation
Black resigns. While this game was hardly a masterpiece of skill I hope any newer players can see the pitfalls of overreaching and underanalysing which it demonstrates. In particular consider the possible results of 5. ... Ng4 which would have led to a Black advantage and a far longer game and the truly fatal blunder of 7. ... Be7 which turned a lost exchange into a lost game.<n><n>The more bull-headed players (or those wishing to test the long-term implications of the carnage amongst Black's pawns) might also consider the ramifications of 14. ... Qe8 or Kb8 as an object lesson in the strength of pawns as the game rolls on but I imagine most of you who examine these annotations are well aware of that!
Kasparov resonded c5 the sicilian defense. He responds often 1.e4 with the sicilian.
Tal possibly wanted to make this opening a bit unusual instead of 3. d4 as he knows that kasparov is well prepeared to play the sicilian. Kasparov probably has something stored for this move but since this is a blitz game (as i mentioned earlier) and the middle game will be more thinking than showing preperations,kasparov might have some problems with time. When it comes to Tal, well he must have prepeared something with Bb5+.
Tal continued with development.
Development and attacking the queen.
Kasparov must have wasted some serious seconds thinking how to reply but in the end he decided to accept this knight sacrifice. Remember that this was a blitz game and i find sacrifices like these in a blitz game quite amazing!
Pawn takes Pawn with check!
Tal had probably this position on his board,on his preperations. This was the point of this knight sacrifice. And now suddenly out of nowhere (unfortunately!) kasparov lost on time. He probably spend time thinking on how to react to this knight sacrifice. I would have been very pleased to see how this game would have gone if Kasparov didn't loose on time. Maybe Ne6+ comes on the right moment? who knows. So this was a nice last game by Tal. He opened with his favorite e4 and managed to make a sacrifice against kasparov. gg.
I wanted to show how the kings gambit provides lots of tactical play for both sides. If you are interested in perfect chess, then this is probably not for you, as this game has mistakes from both sides and the kings gambit is probably not safest opening for white either.<n>I do not normally play Birds opening, this game game is part of a mini tournament that has the opening moves f4 e5 (Froms Gambit).
Kings Gambit, my favourite playing white or black.
One of the main ideas of the kings gambit is to provide good central pawns for white.
Interesting move, my first thought was that surely bringing out the queen here would let me gain more useful tempi, but in hindsight I cannot really see anything really wrong with this move.
Should not have done this, this gives black more space and allow free development of a piece, R e1 is better.
Time wise the game was relatively quick, the most time spent thinking was on this move. White can now no longer afford any passive move anymore, Black has a pawn phalanx marching straight toward the king, backed by a queen and a rook. White on the other hand has a rook targeting the pinned bishop, with good central pawns. My initial thought was that Black has the better attack and I should defend, but this being a kings gambit game and because I was a pawn down I decided to throw caution in to the wind.
Will trade back my rook I lost for a minor piece earlier. The computer shows that this move leads to an about equal game, Nb5 would have given white a much better advantage and keeps up the pressure.
Black might have missed this when he play Qe6.
More queen chasing like earlier in the game, but this time it is much deadlier.
And now the Black queen finally has nowhere to run.<n> I will not comment on the rest of the game. Both sides made mistakes, but hopefully it show how the kings gambit provides both sides lots of tactical playing opportunity and that kings gambit games are not often boring.
The Torre attack (Tartakower variation). Here is a note from Wikipedia as its introduction: White pursues quick and harmonious development, will bolster his d4-pawn by c2-c3, then often enforces e2-e4 to obtain attacking chances on the kingside as the Torre Bishop pins the f6-knight. If White plays an early c4, the opening will transpose to a number of more common queen pawn openings, such as the Queen's Gambit or one of the various Indian defences. The opening is named after the Mexican grandmaster Carlos Torre Repetto, who beat former World Champion Emanuel Lasker with it. The variation was also employed by Savielly Tartakower, Boris Spassky, and Tigran Petrosian early in his career. Among top-level players it perhaps has been most utilized by Jan Timman, Alexey Dreev, and Pentala Harikrishna. The Torre Attack is rarely met in modern top-flight play as a "Go to or Primary" system, and statistics suggest that it is not particularly advantageous for White. Due to its calm nature and relative lack of theory, however, it is popular at club level, giving White chances to seize a middlegame initiative. In recent years it has also been used against Black's kingside fianchetto pawn structure.
I settled for a rook<n>Alternative variation: [Here I thought of] 24... Qc6 [but somehow I didn't see anything clear.] 25. f3 Qxf3 26. Bg2 [I saw this far (nothing surprising).] [But now I see] 26... Qxg3 27. Qd3 Qh2+ 28. Kf1 (28. Kf2 Qxg2+ 29. Ke3 Bd6+ 30. Kd2 Bf4+ 31. Qe3 Bxe3+ 32. Ke1 (32. Kd3 Qg6#) 32... Qg1#)
Black declines the gambit and makes clearance for developing the bishop. It appears to be a fairly solid approach to the opening.
Continued development of pieces. The knight is developed with the idea of forming an attack on the kingside after the opponent has castled there.
Black continues to develop pieces, not making the commital 0-0 and possibly hinting at 0-0-0.
White has a considerable material advantage and strives to apply the most direct technique for a win.
Driving back the pieces using pawns. The idea is to sweep the pieces away from the center using the strong mass of central pawns.
At a casual glance, the position looks dead drawn, and it is indeed hard to believe that anyone could win such a position against a world-class grandmaster such as Polugaevsky. However, this is one of the reasons why I have selected it for inclusion in the present book. Quite apart from Larsen's superb handling of the ending, especially in the latter phase, the game is instructive in demonstrating that even apparently drawish positions can be won, with only the smallest error from the opponent, if one has the determination to try. In the first instance, the latter is the key. If one asks "How does one win such a position against a strong opponent?", the first stage of the answer is "By not agreeing a draw!" .<n>In playing on, White does have a couple of small straws, from which to weave his basket. Firstly, the black bishop on h7 is currently shut out of play by the white e4-pawn and will take some time to emerge into play. Secondly, White has a space advantage, thanks to his pawns on e4 and f4.
62 ..Ke3! is the way to draw. Both Larsen (in the Danish magazine Skakbladet 1966 pp 77-79) and Polugaevsky (in his Preface to the Russian edition of Larsen's best games collection, and in Grandmaster Preparation) dismiss this, on account of 63 Bg7, when the e3- square is again denied to the black king, and the h-pawn threatens to advance. Larsen adds the moves 63. ...Bd4 64. h6 winning for White.  However, the merciless computer points out that 63 ...Bc5! (or 63. ...Bb6!) renews the threat of 64. ...Ke3, and leaves White with nothing better than a repetition of moves after 64. Bh6 (64. Bf6? Ke3 65.<n>Bh4 Bd4 is also not winning for White; indeed, he may well be losing) 64 ...Be3 etc. This possibility only came to light during the preparation of this book, and, as far as I am aware, it has not previously been pointed out anywhere else.<n>After the text move, Black is definitively lost.
totally by the book, so far; black has some tough choices to make here...
it is time for action... white is breaking up formation...
simple, yet very effective; blacks' position is breaking up on e6, while covering d4 in the process... sadly enough, after this black went in full Guru Mode: 3 days thinking, 1 free weekend day, postponed for 4 days, another free weekend day, and thought some more... where people get the time for this, boggles me...
at last the prodigal b5... after b4, black has a chance to make the a-rook count again... but it is all too late...
White's formal positional advantage is clear enough, and consists of the split black queenside pawns. However, with opposite-coloured bishops on the board, it is hard to believe that this advantage should prove sufficient for a win. In the absence of the rooks, there would of course be no winning chances at all, but with two pairs of rooks on the board, the drawing tendency of the opposite bishops is greatly reduced. Andersson gives a veritable tour de force of technique.
Black has no counterplay and can only mark time.
Again we see the "repetition trick". White gains time on the clock and underlines Black's helplessness.
Black finally wearies of shuffling his rook to and fro along the seventh rank, and instead forces the exchange of a pair of rooks, but it is too late to make any difference.
I started this game because I was bored and wanted to play someone a couple days after joining the "Southern Chess". Why not play a teammate? I looked for someone near my rank, and voila! here we are. I'm actually annotating this on my 22nd move.<n><n>Ah, my standard opening.
This is the something Moria Gambit... I have no clue about official names, but I'm told he's to take the pawn... <_<
I didn't forsee his next move...
I accept his attack on my bishop humbly. I was out manuvered this day... BUT I SHALL WIN THIS WAR!!
In this game I was 12 minutes late, as I couldn't find the venue and then had problems parking. I was playing for Penyffordd against Formby, at The Conservative Club, Wallasey. Typical of damn Tories!<n>In this game, I seem to be cruising to an easy win, but, perhaps suffering from what Alexander Kotov describes as "Dizziness due to success", my concentration lapses and I missed a clever tactic which would have given him a slightly better ending. Thankfully he misses it too. See if you can find it!<n>Anywya, he opens with Nf3, The Reti. I invite a transposition to either the Sicilian Defence, with 2. e4 or an English with 2. c4
Black still has pressure on f4, which will make it hard for White to contest the c file.
A45 (Various Indian Systems)<n>Rybka 4 Opening Book: Nf6 48.2%.
E00 (Various Indian Defenses)<n>Rybka 4 Opening Book: e6 62.8%.
E20: Nimzo-Indian Defense<n>Rybka 4 Opening Book: Bb4 65.5%.
E46: Nimzo-Indian: Rubinstein: 4.e3 0-0 5.Ne2 without early Bd3 (Main line)<n>Rybka 4 Opening Book: 0-0 63.4%.
Rybka 4 Opening Book: Nc6 10.4%.
Rybka 4 Opening Book: Be7 100%.
Rybka 4 Opening Book: Re8?! 70%.
usually in this variation 7.e3 is played.
and black resigned . how great kasparov relay is , making this game look so easy vs the Israel international master Jacob Morey . thank you and i hope you enjoy this game .
4. ...... Nf6 - the Morphy Defense and the Main Line of the Ruy Lopez.
16. Qb1 - Maria now takes me out of the book.  I decided to take on d4.  In retrospect, maybe I should have first taken on f3 before that exchange on d4.  At least I would not have had to contend with two horsies in my arc.  One horsie is a handful, two, well they are a double handful!
23. ....... d5 - seemed a good idea at the time, but ....
25. ...... Bxd3 - this looked reasonable at the time .....
27. Qb3! - this in between move kills my game stone dead!
28. Qxd5!! - This move is really, really nasty and the end result will result in me being 6 points down on material with no counterplay against a Master with a rating of nearly 2300!  It was too much so I waved the white flag.  Can you the jury spot the sequence of moves that will lead to such a catastrophe for black?  Anyhow, I hope this will provide a useful lesson to the Coaching Club on tactics, of which I am still trying to improve mine by doing the puzzles - it could be a while - however before I feel the benefits of it, but I do have patience in abundance and the strength to persevere - cheers and bye for now - Joanne
The black queen is aimlessly wandering and dodging!
Black is now open to the white queens wrath! It's only a matter of time......before she strikes.
The game is completely in favor of white's victory!
Hi everyone!<n><n>You have been used to seeing Glenda in a defensive role but occasionally she can be a menace.  In this game it looked at one stage as though black had an advantage, but one erroneous knight move caused Glenda to unleash her wrath on my unfortunate opponent.  How does this come about?  Well, here goes.  Firstly we have a double king pawn opening and we pick up the action again on black's second move.
2. ...... d6 - this move is called the Philidor's defense.  This defense does have some bite to it - in fact I played this defense in an unrated game against a Class A Player with a rating of 1863 and beat him.  I must be very wary.
3. ...... Bg4 - this move has been condemned as inferior after a game between Paul Morphy (playing white) and Count Isouard and the Duke of Brunswick - these two allies could not match the might of Paul Morphy and copped Old Matey on Move 17.
5. ........ dxe5 - over the last few moves we have had an exchange of pawns and a trade of B for N.  I now decided to put Fou Leblanc on c4.
This wild opening finally resulted in a peaceful draw.  How did that happen?  Read on...
This continuation seems to have become the "main line".
Similarly White has to recapture or the Black pawn becomes too powerful.
This active move threatens White's isolani on d3 and also threatens to win a piece on e6.  I don't think I got this move in in our return game and consequently 8ballphoenix maintained his N on e6 for most of the game, eventually mating me on the queenside.
While he has the initiative it is important that White uses it effectively.  This rook move exploits the half-open b-file, threatening Black's b-pawn.
Black releases the pin and develops his rook.  With the last piece developed the opening is over!  In reality we've been embroiled in middle-game tactics and strategic considerations since about move 7.
In this game, losing a "good castling" on the kingside is normal.
Black's checks on the black diagonal doesn't lead to a real advantage for him... maybe.
Returning the quality, and exposign myself to an attack on the c column and the black diagonal. If he uses it, I'm lost.
Selman decides on a French Defense, hoping to play a slow, positional game. Beware what you wish for -- you might get it.
Steinitz takes the opportunity to gain a tempo.
Selman tries to break Steinitz's center. But even though he removes the QP, Steinitz's KP on K5 is the real monster, cramping Selman's position fiercely.
Slowly but surely, Steinitz's development proceeds. Selman has much less room to maneuver than Steinitz.
With this exchange, Steinitz creates an open QB file. If he can plant a Rook on it, it can be a potential invasion route.
Locking the Q-side Pawns and freeing his QR.
Selman challenges Steinitz's control of the QB file.
Steinitz reestablishes control of the QB file.
Hoping to trade his Knight for Steinitz's Bishop in return for losing his KP.
I lost this game with positional errors more than tactical ones, and with fine play by my opponent.  I should have kept the center locked up and secured for myself instead of trying to develop everyone to go on the attack at once.
The Italian Game is one of the oldest recorded chess openings.
This seemed like a good idea at the time. It doubles my pawns on the e-file, but it opens my rook on the f-file. Later it proves to be my undoing.
And I pick the worst possible move for the rook. I truly didn't see the fork coming. I only blame the fact that I was moving quickly, practically speed chess, while I was playing a video game at the same time - not a wise decision if I wanted to keep my winning streak alive... My opponent, however, was paying perfect attention to this game and showed me no mercy at all.
I've played lpcmagician quite a few times and our games are always close.  For a bit of variety this time, I played d4.  I usually prefer e4 but just fancied something different here.
The Nimzo-Indian defence.  I know very little theory about this opening, but recalled that 4.e3 is the Rubinstein system main-line.
9.Nf6 is not so good here as it blocks the black queen from an easy retreat.
11...Nxd5.  Capturing with the Knight means that I don't even now have to play f3 - I can play e4 straight away and then force the black Knight to move yet again.  A feature of this game is the number of times black pieces are repeatedly moved to the neglect of black's overall development.
This is the start of a black's problems.  The black queen is short of safe squares and it is time to exploit this!
1-0.  An interesting game that finished earlier than expected, largely due to the difference between white and black's piece development and the poor placement of the black Queen early on.  I'd be grateful for any of your comments on this game.  Cheers!
All this is "typical", for me. This is a weak defence for black, but it comes that I won several games with it. Now, white is playing really good...
Yeah, this is what I sweared I wouldn't do in this scheme. The idea is to castle queenside, hold the attack against my king and be ready for a countergame, mainly on the black diagonal aiming to a2. But, with this move, I found no compensation with o-o-o, Qxg2, KxKe5, d4xe5, and the bishop has to retire to c5 or b4, then he has one precious time to defend Rd8-g8, Qmoves, Rg6, Qmoves, Rh8-g8, and my main attack line, the black diagonal, is closed.
Queen's Pawn, Mason Variation.
Up two points black should trade.
c3 is a very interesting move, I used to play it myself a bit because it was in the first opening book I ever read.  Igor Nikolayev, the strongest player in Rochester, also plays the move.
I'm not so sure about this move, it seems to allow black to get at least an equal position.  I believe the most challenging move for black is Bb5, pinning my knight.  Then if black plays dxe4 white plays Nxe5 and has some threats.  I think that black has ways to fight through it in that case as well, but it's much more tricky.  Also, white is side with the initiative, which is a nicer position to be in.
I liked this move, since it stops my plan of O-O-O.  But the downside is that the bishop is going to be attacked if I play Nxe5.  This makes it a good time for Bg4.  I think I could have played it last move or even before that, but now it has a pretty strong effect.
I think this is a mistake and after this I was winning.  I couldn't see a way for you to stop my king from getting very active and making too many threats for you to handle.<n><n>I think you had to play axb5.  If I take back with the a pawn, then you can keep your rook on the d-file and it's hard for me to get my king to a good spot.  I probably would have tried moving my rook to the a-file and getting it active that way, but I couldn't see exactly how it would turn out.  If I take with my king, then you can play Ra1 and we are in a similar situation as the game, but my pawns are much more weak.  Again, it would be hard to move my king without loosing the a6 pawn.
All in all a good game and you definitely surprised me with how strong you played.  If I had one piece of advice it would be to try to play actively when you get in a tough position.  It's tempting to try to stay solid and protect everything, but that often leads to a situation where the other person is able to slowly increase their advantage.  Sometimes it works, but I think usually it's best to try to get counter-chances.  At the least, if you go down, you go down swinging :)
An odd move, black's obviously going for the check on h4. Sure, it stops me from castling, but i think this line gives white too much of a free hand. Most common (and better) are 3..d6 3..d5 and 3..g5
After a long stint of thought i spot a combination which takes advantage of blacks exposed Queen and badly placed Knight.
An enjoyable game for me, in which two dodgey moves by black in the opening give white a free hand and an initiative. My efforts crowned by a brilliant combination based on the Nf6 sac.
He took my donkey. I know I should have taken the Queen with check. But I didn't see it.
I don't know what he was thinking but I win.
?! In post game analysis, my opponent shared his thoughts with me that he was anticipating a pawn storm, and wanted to back up his pawn defenders with his strongest piece. While a valid concern, IMHO it seemed a little slow, and was just begging to be punished. I'm really digging my position now, as I'm ripped and ready with great activity while my opponent stills lags in development.
! I've been contemplating eliminating that bishop for the last 6 moves, and now my opportunity is lost. Black trades two minors for a rook, which usually sounds good, but he also picks up my e pawn, and the dominos start falling.
! Has anyone seen my attack? It was here a minute ago.......
? Black has the opportunity to trade queens and chooses not to. Instead, he chooses a healthy (and annoying) pin.  However..........
And black resigns (43...Kg8 44. Qf6 any 45. Qg7# OR 43...Kh8 44. Qf6+ Kg8 45. Qg7# OR 43...Kh8 44. Qf6+ Kh7 45. Qg7#). Many thanks to my new friend Windy for the fantastic game, and thanks to all for the Charlotte hospitality. I really enjoyed playing with you guys.
The Reti opening. Puts me off my first-choice move 1... e5, as the first time I used this response, it set the tone for the rest of the game, and I lost...
...and we trade the pieces, leaving me ahead on development, although my queen may look a little vulnerable in her current position...
However, it does allow me to trade pieces or win a pawn...
..but was this the right move, trading his bishop for my knight, doubling pawns on f7 and f6? His counterplay has weakened.
...and attack it with my own...
...so my opponent resigns.
I guess this is called the Benko opening (g3 that is). I had studied a few of gnitnaws games before I joined his game. I saw he favored queens pawn games (as white he seemed to prefer a queens gambit game) and as black he favored variations that began with d5.
Simple development. I honestly don't know what this opening is called at this point. At the time I started this game I hadn't been playing g3 openings long. I've really just begun exploring the king side fianchetto. Now I prefer to begin with e4 though my general goal is to fianchetto king side. I'm a big fan of the Kings Indian Attack.
YES! These kind of sacrifices are why I love this game.
Traded queens... He now has a well placed rook on the open d file. Unfortunately for black, this position isn't so great when you're down a rook and your opponents rooks are connected.
Finally got the knight... it was at this point my opponent resigned. <n><n>All in all it was a fun game. The loss of the rook early on was really the downfall for black. Definitely a confidence booster for me and my new found love of the king side fianchetto.
4. d3 would transpose to an ancient variation of the Italian, in which (according to Nunn) White has an edge.
White is pretty much busted.  I decided to get two pawns for my knight and see if I can get my king side pawns moving. before Black figures out how to get his a8 rook into the game.
?  I saw RxR, RxR, Rd1, RxR, QxR, Qxb2 and black has achieved equality, and I start getting a little scared. This is my second worse move of the game.
!! Wins, as Kf1 is met by Qf2#, and Kh1 is met by Rd1#. This is a prime example of how not to play chess. A pretty poor showing on my part this game. I end the 2007 Alabama State Chess Championship with an extremely average result of 3/6, and vow revenge next year. I hope you have enjoyed these games. I can't say that there is much to be learned from them, but they were played at a fun tournament with some good opponents. I encourage everyone to get involved with OTB play. It's a whole lot different than playing on GK! - best regards, Thomas.
white try to take advantage for playing g4. Thats the weak side for black.
white try to respond black and also attack with NC5!!! it is a good illustreted move. It blocks black game and also attack white a6 pawn. Also weak the defence of black. BUT!!!!
Black is sligtly stuck white kings. Quenn and castle has a huge advantage for attacking left side. Also black other castles can be help with Rb8.
queen trys to exchange but black try to develop the attack with play Qb6
Thats it this move makes white in danger. Also weak points of b2 pawn with this move is nightmare. Also White has to escape queen but it makes worst for b2. Resignation for white !!!!
i force the declination of the gambit now to lay in an attack on the king side.
breaking the door down.
hoping for d5
proposing a trade in which i have no desire in.
multiple threats. the only answer i see is qd4?? which results in c3!! and the black queen is lost.
black blunders here and gives the game away
but all in all i think answering the king's gambit with f6 is even far worse then just accepting te gambit.
1. ..... c5 - Klaus may have gathered that Myevilluck is an absolute connoisseur of the King's Gambit, so he gives him the Sicilian rather than play e5.  It will be interesting to see just how Myevilluck shapes up against this one!
40. Qxc4 - after the queen trade white is the exchange for a pawn down.  This could prove decisive in black's favour, but white fights on.
Great, QP openings.  I decided to try a Kings Indian, just to see how it went.
Looking it up later, I should have tried a Queen's Indian instead (it becomes apparent during the game too, the black bishop is practically useless)
I stared at the board for a whole 2 minutes before making this move.   I missed his response completely.  I was extremely disappointed in myself.  I should have simply traded knights with him.  It would have slightly  decreased his presence in the center.
I was fairly proud of this move at the time.  If he had done 23. hxg4 then 23...Qh1#.  Again, GameKnot spoils me and I didn't look very far down the line at his counter moves.
All book so far.
Concluding the win of a piece...
Immediate pressure,and also swapping down and reducing Black's chance for counterplay.
Symmetry, so far.
Two minors, four pawns, etc...
White has a huge range of options, here.  This early development of the bishop makes sense: aiming along the most accessible diagonal towards the K-side.
The consequences of this is for Black much greater than the the loss of a piece for a pawn.  For the moment, Black can't castle, and his bishop is a very poor minor piece (one of the down-sides of the French Defence is the so-called 'French Bishop' - blocked in by pawns).  Black never does succeed in improving its prospects.
Aiming for d6.  There is no good way of stopping this.  Nominally, White is up a minor piece (two knights for a bishop).  True, his Q-side has yet to be mobilized, but that's just potential not yet tapped.  Contrast Black's Bishop - hemmed in by friendly pawns, with no prospects either, being committed to the protection of the backward e-pawn.
Hoping something good will turn up on the g-file.  Given that the bishop can not possibly participate in this attack, Black is effectively two pieces behind in the ensuing game.
No.  But Black might have been better advised not to commit this rook in this way, and found other ways to protect his bishop.  Unfortunately even the better 21...Qg7 won't save Black: 21...Qg7  22.g3 (well, it achieves this much - White has to make a defensive move!) 22... f4  23.Rxe6! Bxe6  24.Rxe6 ... (White now threatens 25.Re7)  24...Rg6  25.Rxg6 Qxg6  26.Qxf4.  With 2 Knights and 2 pawns for a rook, White should have no trouble taking out the game.
(!) A tactical shot wins more material.  The e-pawn is pinned, and 22...Qxf5;  23.Qe7ch picks up the rook at d8.
But this doesn't help, either.
The Queen is now lost.
Black's high water mark.  He has no way to reinforce this attack.
Efficiently wrapping up the game.
I would not call this a game of missed opportunities: most were taken all right.  After Black missed his chance to equalise, White never allowed him the slightest chance to get back into the game.  An object lesson in being alert to changes in the flow of the game; but also in how to win a winning game.
I am not sure this is a conventional opening. It seems to sacrifice the pawn at e5 for little gain.
Develop, develop, develop. White has more pieces developed and a stronger hold on the center. And a small material edge. Probably not the situation black had hoped for with his unconventional opening.
c6 was an odd choice. Black just gives up another pawn.
And now black is behind by two pawns and has limited development of his pieces.
First we trade the knights. Both queens are now under attack, but black also has two bishops under attack, too.
Black wisely chose not to trade queens while he's down a bishop and a pawn. So it's time to chase her around, while getting my pieces into more active roles. I could have played Bxb7 but after black's R(a)b8 I end up losing my pawn at b2, which splits my a and c pawns too.
I've never tried this opening before. I don't like the look of it. Please tell me what is.
I start my favorite opening which is the king's pawn opening.
I always try to develop my pieces early.
He takes with his knight which is what I would've done.
He takes. Of course.
He takes it and wrecks my plan for a king side castle. He knows this has thrown me off my game and is cracking his knuckles and saying Hallelujah!
Landon secures his King. I mean secures his demise. But it looks good!
Whoops.... In his greedy attempt to checkmate me, Landon forgot the most important piece on the board.
This caused much teeth gnashing in North Carolina, I'm sure. <n>And a fair bit of dancing in Kansas!
the petroff defence has had a bit of a renosainnce of late. It is a good defensive choice because black usaully has not trouble equalizing.
Unusual opening. I'm not keen on flank development at such an early stage. Not being an openings expert I fail to see the advantage.
sorry quite bad with openings, what is white's opening called?
still I don't see real threat!
I don't think this was very wise
took me some time to think about this, but though if i could get rook into e7 after queen exchange i have a chance of an attack with the two rooks
now thinking it'll be interesting to see how Rook and knight work together.
hoping for Kb1 so Qxc3.
don't see the point of this move.
very epic game. one last thing the game finished with 2:48 minutes for black vs. 9:48 for white.
This was the opening position for this tournament. I never play 1...e5 as black, so I've never been in this position.
This pawn move is so obviously wrong that the trap must work only with the unwary or in a blitz game in Washington Square Park. (If the d pawn takes the knight, Qb3 wins.)
But this seems to be a pretty easy refutation. White has two pieces en prise. I suppose Qh5 might keep up the pressure? But...?
With the h-pawn luft, this check is impotent.
Don't know that this protects the square, exactly. <n>Black is ahead and should trade pieces.
However....
Playing Black is my friend I go to tournaments with. He doesn't play on gameknot anymore but his annotations are still here. I saw this game live while walking around during my opponent's turn. It was a wild position and great ending.
Yes, Black is offering to give up a pawn. Most players who know Saemisch well will not accept the pawn and instead play Nge2 hoping for cxd4 Nxd4 with a Maroczy Bind. If White accepts the pawn, then Black gets a lot of positional compensation. After dxc5 dxc5 Bxc5 Nc6, White's position is cramped and Black has a big lead in development. If you know this opening well then you know that accepting the gambit is not advisable.
Instead of going for a maroczy bind, White avoids trading a central pawn for a flank pawn. This position is like the Benoni Defense, except that Black has not played e6-exd5 yet.
White's best bet is to let Black trade his central pawn for the flank pawn.
Black plans to weaken a lot of his kingside playing f5, but he has pieces to cover those weaknesses, and White isn't in a position to take advantage of them.
Baker admits that this move wasn't the best, all it does is threaten Bh3  winning the exchange, after Kh1 the queen's position in White's camp isn't really dangerous
Black's main advantage here is the majority of pieces controlling the kingside. Black should continue to clump the pieces around the kingside. The maneuvering will be slow, but as long as White can't do anything, Black has time to prepare a kingside attack.
After Black retreats his misdeveloped queen, all of his pieces are clumped together and ready to make progress. White's pieces are spread out across the board and are not well coordinated. It looks like this will be a positional squeeze, which is common in positions where no pieces have been traded yet.
The Na4-Nb6 idea mentioned earlier might be White's only chance to generate some play. Black has secured all the weaknesses left with the advancing of h and f-pawns, so now it's time to make progress with the minor pieces.
Black's pieces are beginning to reach their optimal squares to start an attack. Black has a lot of pressure on the f-file, so Nfg4 is coming.
54th GK Tournament. I meet 1. d4 with the Modern Defense. The World DB seems to think 1. ... g6 and 1. ... d6 are the two strongest moves for black, but 1. ... g6 has the lowest incidence of drawn games which puts it at the top of my list.
Interesting. On black's 4th move, the DB had the position heavily in favor of black (22 wins for black vs. 14 for white, with 7 draws). White's 5. a4 attacks the black queenside and was only played twice in the DB with an average rating of 2535, with white winning once and drawing once. Suddenly 4. ... b5 looks very questionable to me, though two games is hardly statistically significant.
Now black has lost a pawn. Probably not what those 43 grandmasters had in mind when they played 4. ... b5.
White has lost a piece, and his king is now a target in the center. It's time for black to find a way to use his material advantage to exploit white's exposed king.
22. exf6?! wasn't exactly a blunder, but it is a very dubious strategy. Now black has a half-open file with a rook aimed right at white's exposed king, and black's DSB gains a lot of freedom too.
Black's bishop is en prise, but it is of no consequence. After 25. Rxb2 Raf8 white is in trouble. His best try is to shut down the black queen with 26. Qg1 Qxg1 27. Rxg1 Rxf3 and black regains his material lead and now threatens to win the white pawn at b3 and also threatens to win the white rook at b2. Black will win even more material and with the queens off the board, the endgame will be an easy one for black.
For those interested, I created a puzzle out of this position: http://gameknot.com/chess-puzzle.pl?pz=12772. Don't read on, it will spoil the fun. Is there something I can do to make this a clickable link?
Scottish Gambit! My specialty! My opponent took an extremely long time for the next move. After the match he admitted that he was very unfamiliar with this opening. He countered fairly effectively though, relying on instinct.
? Why not 15...Nxh2+? Black was under considerable time pressure though. His clock read four minutes while mine was seven minutes.
? Kg1 would have solved things right? Time pressure screws with you...
I hate horses when they are my opponent's... :-)
and so it is done.
but i don't
Unless you see something I did not... this is the end...
Hi everyone!<n><n>When you look at your position, do you think, after playing every move, that you have covered all bases.  Think again because yet again, Henry and I end up being conquered by a Master with a rating north of 2300.  This time it is against my buddy Dave Rundle.  How did this happen?  Well, the title gives you a clue!  You can also follow gameknot analysis as follows:-   http://gameknot.com/analyze-board.pl?bd=16902271&rnd=0.048996459985547636        Back to the game - I start off with a rarity by my standards - 1. c4 which is the English Opening.
3. .... Nf6 - development.
7. ..... exd5 - pawn trade.
9. exd4 - another pawn trade.
14. Be3 - an OK move at this time but it will be the start of an unwanted overload set up.
22. Rh1 - carrying out the first stage of my plan but alas, this is how far I get.
Hi guys, I haven't being annotating any chess game recently, because I was preparing for my exams, and finally I got some free time today, so i decide to use the time and bring you guys a very unprofessional chess annotation. This was a game between me and ruderooks, it's definitely not my best game, but I found it quite interesting, let's get started:  My opponent had white pieces, and he started with e4.
Just 2 weeks ago, I was studying French defense, so I decided to use it in this game, e6 was played.
Finally white realized my lsb was a giant pest, b3 prepares for c4, a little too late, white never had a chance to castle in the game, let's see what happened.
after the pawns were exchanged, I played a in between move, Qe7+, the reason is simple, I was hoping for white to play Qe2, so i would exchange queens and keep the bishop pair advantage in the late middle game or end game.
but black didn't want to exchange queens, and played Kf1.
luckily none of those happened, Rb1 was played , but my queen is in position to defend.
Rxc4, that's obvious, and black resigned. because to prolong the game, white would have to play Qxc4, but that is pointless to continue.  If white played something else, let's say Qa1, hides in the corner, avoids the discover check, then Rc1 discovered double check and mate(lol...). In conclusion: white had so many chances, but he missed too much, and d5 was the main reason that he lost the game so quick. Still I think it's a very interesting game, you may notice that white's king had a very bad day, he went from e1 to f1, f1 to e2, e2 to d3, d3 to e2 again, and then eventually back to f1. Anyway, I hope you enjoyed it, see you guys next time! :D
Usually, Black takes my knight in this position, but he lets me mess with his pawns instead.
I'm not sure what that does for him. It separates my pawns; it gives his queen another diagonal -- but I'm not sure it's worth the pawn.
I especially have to keep his queen off of that long diagonal and not let it pin my rook.
Looks like we're heading for a draw, but I don't have any reason to avoid it. Our team's up 2-1 with this as the last remaining game.<n><n>(Draw accepted)
We reach the Rubinstein Variation of the Dutch Defense although I was not aware of it at the time and simply developed as seemed natural.
With the Kingside for Black already so far forward I thought the potential of pinning the Knight was worth while although Black can break this at any time with h6.
I'm not sure if a fianchetto is normal in the variation but it seems to me Black should be developing his Queenside in the hopes of castling in that direction.
I totally did not see this one coming but perhaps it is normal for the variation. With the f-pawn so advanced it seems like the b3-g8 long white squared diagonal is ripe for attack
Looking at a discovered check and hoping my opponent takes the apparently free Bishop
I've gotten rid of all the minor pieces now it is a matter of forcing more trades to reach end game
24. ... Rfe7 25. Qxf7 Rxf7 26. Rxf7 and we've simplified to a Queen vs. Two Rooks ending but my three extra pawns should be plenty for victory
My opponent resigned here although I'm not sure 38. Rc4 was not worse than 38. Kc4. My connected pawns on g and h can force a trade and with my Rook behind my pawns the survivor of that exchange or my c-pawn or e-pawn will eventually Queen and my opponent resigned.
in this game, white went into a won endgame, but played a huge blunder in the very end.  But black resigned before trying to play out the position. This mistake was probably made by a miscalculation, as you will see.
this is the so called 4 knights scotch.
I do not know any theory on this opening, but this defense seems reasonable. White has no way to make any material gains.
(!) this tricky move is best. Black has no way to prevent material losses. This transposes into the previous line I mentioned.
an interesting choice. I cannot analyze all the lines, but this looks safe.
generating counterplay. Black has 2 passed pawns down the queen side. Now white must really carefully.
(??) a blunder that throws the game away. However, black actually resigned at this point. However, I will continue the annotation to show that black can easily draw with his only legal move!
Clearing the back row. Prokofiev has an advantage in time, as Oistrakh has yet to complete his development.
Oistrakh begins surging his own Pawns forward on the Q-side, hoping to generate a passed Pawn.
The position simplifies, increasing the chances of a draw. Oistrakh has a slight advantage with his now-freed B and advanced Q-side Pawns.
Rushing his King to the defense of the Q-side.
Prokofiev relies on his advanced Pawns to neutralize the advantage of Oistrakh's minor exchange.
Unfortunately, I can't force the BQ far from c7's guard... I thought I was lost.
Now I have to defnd c3 (I saw it will become weak, but this was a hot game, and I wasn't thinking in long-term strategy: I just need not to allow Qxc3+, winning the R. I'm lost anyway, when BxQ, bxQ and... I'm a piece under, with very few chances to even draw the game. BUT: when you go out of normal sequences (Na3, for Nb5, as an example), and the opponent is not "seeing" the consequences of an "odd move"... it is more difficult for him to keep the reasoning "on". This works for blitzes only, of course...
Lucky me... I don't recommend my game, of course, but this time it worked. :-)
Ruy Lopez exchange variation.
twanky starts a queen side attack.  A corridor is now developing down the d file.
Whites attack is now basesd on the pawns on the queen side.
Check again. For how long can I stop him advancing his pawns.
but no. I don't really know why twanky made that move. Maybe to protect his pawn but why not advance the pawn. It made me think for a while.
Twanky resigns knowing he cant catch the scampering pawn. An enjoyable game.
but no, he is not a child i can win with such an easy checkmate, so, the game continues...
so, i defend it
but i did start attack, the battle for the middle sucks
i double my "g" spawns defense
CHECKMATE! we could and this game in a just 30 moves, it was interesting game, which made me think a lot!
This is rather a risky defence, putting the horse on c6 wpould not leave an opening.
see?
see?
OH NO!!!  Always put the king in check if you have a good opportunity for an attack!!!!!
All right, here we have the sicilian defence.The next move does not comply with any variations of the sicilian.
Black is lost, regardless of what he does.
This blunder destroys Black's Queen-side.
The c7 Rook drowned in hot soup with this astounding Queen check.
I learned from this loss. Motto: When taking pieces and blocking checks, check for holes in your position.
I really like how this game is going.
I win<n>black timouts
My favourite opening
I get relieved when my opponent dosent reply me with the sicilian defence
Check! Personally I don't think black should have played dxe5...
Probably not the best continuation from me but for the mean time, I threaten to win a pawn
I expected a5 from my opponent but instead he played this.. I must say that we had just 60seconds to make a move each and he had about 7seconds left before he played this.. The cool thing is this move helped me form a tactic.....
so far he has a massive advantage.
?? STOP IT!!
...so let's try something.
Opening the g column. It's not all, but it's something.
My opponent didn't.
He takes the bite.
Blocking the black bisop for the rest of the game.
sicilian... we all know this opening....
i agonised over this for a long time... i seriously looked into Qh7 , but i just couldn't see how i could make it work for me... i wanted the queens off the board so i could get on with advancing the pawns, my only hope...
this surprised my opponent... he though i would want to avoid the queen trade, since i am down material... i felt the less pieces on the board, the more chance i have of holding him off and pushing my pawns... also, it was crucial that i kept the initiative so i could claim his b-pawn.
discovered attack with late development...
what else is there? 31... Bxc5 32. Rc7 and black has lost a bishop and rook for two pawns, and still has the kingside pawns to contend with... anything else and i get away with a whole rook...
black resigns... now the error of Bxa3 is clear... his bishops are fatally out of position... black cannot stop promotion... maybe if it were my last pawn that promoted, he might've tried holding out for the draw, but this is an easy win now... with his king out in the open, his pieces are just begging to be picked off by the agile queen... and even if he did manage to hold off the queen, i'd just advance another pawn until he breaks... <n><n>so... a question i hope someone can answer for me...<n><n>should 15. b4 be a ?, !, or a ?! move...? i have no idea if it was a good move or a bad move... i just know it turned this game on its head... hope you enjoyed the game.
Never understand this early unsupported attack
most of the tme i win when the gambit is accepted...
normal reaction : defending the c4 position. Wicht is not such a good idea in my opinion because my king will go to king side anyway so pressure on queen side could be lost time
i didnt understand this move
it wont help this knight
The queen is now trapped.
Black resigns, because of 38...Qxc6 39. Qxc6  Kb8 40. Rh8  Bc8 41. Rxc8#.  Undoubtedly my opponent and I made many mistakes, but it was a fun game.
OK, I admit, I found this line in the GK World Database and it appeared favorable, so I played it. To me, it looks like 6. d6?! is a dubious play at best, giving up a pawn for insufficient compensation. However, given the moves that follow, most of which is rooted right here, the compensation might be more than it appears.
Well, drat, white gained a pawn and all black has to show for it is a lead in development. Is it enough?
White didn't sense the danger. 13. Qxb5? loses quite a bit of material for white, but the checkmate is not a guarantee yet. Still, white is in trouble here. He should have asked himself why black threw away a pawn with 12. ... b5! and if he did, he may have stayed away from the poisoned pawn. The threat now is that black has 4 pieces (two bishops, rook, and queen) all ready to spring into action against white's king, and his queen is too far away to help - so is his undeveloped queenside.
15. Qc4?? loses the game. Black cannot force checkmate, but he can force white to give up his queen, plus more material, to prevent it. 15. ... Bxf3 is how it starts.
16. Nd4!! This is my favorite move in a long time. Double exclamation. White's only option to survive is 17. Qxd4 cxd4 and white has lost his queen. Further, black still has a decent attack, though white may squirm out of it. The beauty of this move is that Black wanted to play 16. ... Qg5+?? to force a checkmate but he cannot. White would simply reply 17. Qg4 and black's attack dies, leaving black two pawns down with nothing to show for it. However, from d4, black's knight obstructs the white queen. Even if white captures the knight with his pawn on c3, black wins by checkmate.
Final position. A point of interest is that, prior to playing 19. ... Qxh2#, black is behind by 5 points. I mention this because I have been commenting on several recent annotations that counting points is not always the way to win, as this game demonstrates. Back to this game, white could have delayed a few more moves with 19. f4 Bxf4 20. Kg2 Qg4+ 21. Kh1 Qh3 22. Qxf7+ Kxf7 23. (any) Qxh2#. Did all of this stem from 6. ... d6?!. No, not all. But it set the stage. I'm going to have to dig that up in a book (it's not in any books I have) to find out how much of this could have been played differently by white, and if 6. ... d6?! really is better than it looks.
So we're back at the straight Sicilian. Here comes Nimzowitsch... 4. ... g6, is still an option, here... This place, is were we learn the true ropes...
The best, I could think of... Black has to clear up his development...
Who am I, to call this inaccurate? This was the least of my fears...
Now it is draw, or die for black... 35. ... fxg4 36. Kxg4, is very unclear for black...
Draw offer from black accepted... White has nothing, but so does black... To me, this draw meant a lot...
hello<n>this is going to be my first annotation and the first time that i played budapest gambit<n>don't know if i followed main line so i'd like a few comments on my play
now i like my position here<n>i developed 3 pieces while my opponent developed 2 of them<n>and my rook is controlling semi-opened file
well, he moved it but luckily for me in the wrong place<n>blunder that cost him the game
My pawn takes a share in the centre.
However, I develop my bishop and attack the lonely isolated, doubled c-pawn.
The knight is lost.
This gives me no choice but to take. My queen is on an active square and I don't want to move it.
A great, sound move, in an attempt to get rid of the d3 pawn, and my doubled c-pawn.
The knight cannot be defended and is lost.
Hiding in his cove.
!!! What! That's two pieces hanging! Surely not. Surely not. But yes, this is a fabulous move. Take a moment to admire this move. Here are the variations - there is no good move for white to make.<n><n>1. 35. Qxe2 Qg1#<n>2. 35. gxh3 Bf3#<n><n>I hope you spotted the first variation but did you see the second? Now, what could white possibly do? He can't take, so ...
This is the best move - leaving the queen to be taken. Obviously with QXB comes Qg1#, but this slows it down, a bit. Anyhow, continuing...
Qh1# with an absolutely wonderful mate. Just look at it all. But the main motif of this annotation is that passiveness isn't always bad - I launched an absolutely ferocious attack at the end. Thanks for watching: please do make any comments necessary or ratings. Thank you! @oodle3 :D<n><n>(My opponent did play very well in this, but there you are.)
I've never been impressed with the Sicilian Defense.  I realize it's the most popular response to 1. e4, but White doesn't have to head into the myriad of Black's homespun preparation and still get a fantastic game.
This move of the late Yugoslav IM Rabar is considered Black's strongest.  White gets, at worst, a promising gambit for the price of a pawn and if Black goes astray, he can get crushed.
In my humble opinion, the game is dead even.  Black's extra pawn is very weak and will fall at some point in the game so I'm not even counting it as a material advantage.
This one is my favorite game.
my basic opening.
At this time I am trying to cut down some of his power pieces.
Time for a trade. I still have my favorite pieces knights.
At this time it is survival. And thoughts of resigning.
It is a matter of time now.
The base for the Icelandic gambit.
I don't prefer this kind of dev, but it is definitely glod and sound.
I have a spare tempo to hide the king, but I need two to get it castled queenside. And two to hide it in g7. In the meanwhile, white will lose a piece. But I don't want to take it with the pawn... here, Re1 would have made the game for white, on a quick look.
Now, Rf4+ wins a queen for a rook, and the game, but I played so quickly... then I realized I forgot.
it's a bad placement for the d pawn, in this kind of structures both the d and the b pawn can rapidly became week and be captured
I like this variation. White is one pawn down but has 3 pieces out against one for black.
Mistake, black has to develop instead of carring on playing the same pieces. Furthermore, the knight is now on the queen side where he can not get very dangerous.
As he cannot save his queen black tries a counterattack but it's another mistake. Black trades the only piece he has out (the LSB was dangerous for black at this spot but the queen will take and play exactly the same role)...
Black has little other choice
Well.....It wasn't a good choise before...
This trade is been great for me!
This looks pretty alright for Black, as he presumes that he'll get another queen too.
This is Black's chance. He has to do something that will let him stay in the game.
Another break in White's series of checks. Black can now try to get something underway. It is of high interest that Black hasn't simply resigned. He has two rooks in place of an extra queen, though one of his rooks is tucked away on h8 doing nothing.
What in the world? Black has just sacrificed his queen. Interestingly, this move is pretty solid, as after 36. Qxb1 Rxd2 Black has two rooks and a bishop against a queen, which is pretty good.
Black now takes action. It is his turn to harass his opponent's king. This looks fine, but in reality, Black's bishop is open to capture by White's queen on d2, as the rook is pinned. However, White fails to appreciate that.
Black is very daring. Sacrificing his bishop, this move looks like insanity, but, in truth, Black gains an advantage in attack.
A beautiful game, not just in the moves, but in the astonishment it conjures up as well. Black was essentially down a queen but still won, with White giving up both of his queens to prolong checkmate. And, curiously, it all happened in exactly fifty moves. If you wish to leave me a suggestion for an annotated game, or want to leave me feedback, please drop me a message. Your help is appreciated.
now this is not standard queens opening, but I do like to prepare the fianchetto for castling king side... Even if I don't end up using it.
ok I'll develop to f5 - see if you'll bring king side pawns forward
... but this could be better ?<n>can't really budge the bishop except with the queens knight.<n>and Its stopping you castling on the kings side... You'll have to start developing your queens side... (come to think of it - need to develop some major pieces meself)
d4 !!<n><n>didn't think I'd get it but .... the pressure is off! c4 was a serious mistake<n>ok, wheres the Queen goin?
At this juncture we played 24-36 in quick succession 'live' during google chat ... but this doubling of rooks definitly gives me that 3 pawn advantage I was talking about - and I'll hopefully consolodate during the rapid play.
but you didn't take (phew!) <n>but this is a nice move too - didn't see it!? maybe my knight should have been protecting on the other side?
So I'll try and build a jail there for you!
ok, nows the time to make these 3 pawns count...<n>force the knight off the board in defence of rampaging pawns.<n>This move also stops you approaching solitary pawn on e4 ...<n>- wow is that still there ??? hopefull back to 3 days per move now - that was frantic - nearly lost it in the corner..
So I refuse it, and win a well-deserved question mark.
Marching on - this is bound to exchange some material, good for him while he is up by a pawn.
His pieces did not seem to "point" at any side, and long castling gives me a rook on the central d-file - open thanks to my long gone pawns! My a2 pawn would pay the toll eventually..
Side-stepping.
See?
Polyanna: I have 4 ranks, he has 3!
Queen's gambit accepted.
? This move loses instantly, but it's hard to find good moves for black.
Checkmate! Hope you enjoyed the game.
In this game I was down but didnt give up and delivered checkmate.  I start off with the modern defense.
Im in no danger here with this exchange.
Here playing black on a challenge asked by Juanefe. Against d4, I play usually Nf6 giving me the oportunity to play the king indian defense, the queen indian, the nimzo or the benoni. I'm not a big fan of the queen gambit, I find these games quite boring most of the time. The dutch, mostly the leningrad variation, look pretty interesting but I'm not experienced enought with this opening to think about playing it in a ranked game. Maybe in a close future.
Well, to tell the truth, this move surprised me very much. I didn't seen this move quite often and seriously didn't know what to play against it. Black still have a lot of choice and could transpose it to something lookliking at the QID, the KID or even the benoni. I think c4 is a little superior finally because it take the center right in the beginning, giving a lot of space to your pieces.
I was thinking about to transpose into the benoni. With the knight on f3, white couldn't play the dangerous taimanov variation. This opening have his proper name, the Spielmann-Indian Defense. The name come from of Rudolf Spielmann, one of the best attacker in the first part of the last century.
?! At this point in the game, I was thinking that this match would be at first a fight of space. I thought that it would be a hard fight in closed position a la Nimzowisht and I didn't wanted to be squizzed like a rat facing a snake. That's why I've been surprised by this move. White can now free his light squared bishop but it's gonna be harder for him to develop his queen side as we will see further in the game.
?! White underestimated me here. With 5 pieces protecting the d7 pawn, there's no way white can dream of taking it, the only purpose of this move is to do Qf3 to threat my rook. On a bullet game or against a weak player it can be a strong move and give a won game early in the game but in this case it will only result as a lost of tempo. O-O would have been better here.
?? Well I think it really didn't worth it for white to lose a bishop and a knight for a rook and a pawn. It was too early in the game to make this kind of sac; white didn't have enought advantage to do this and it didn't provoked anything. White still lack of development, not coordinated for a great attack and his pawn structure is not that fine.
?! I should have done it the move before! There was for sure a lot of other better moves but when I have seen that I have an oportunity to sac a rook and do that kind of combination, I just couldn't stop it!<n><n>Computer analysis:<n>Mistake: +1.74 » … Rxf4 22. Qxf4 Nxe5 23. Qxe5 Nd3 24. Qh5 g6 25. Qf3 Ne5 26. Qf2 Qc5 27. b4 axb4 28. axb4 Qxb4 29. Ra1 Bxe4 30. Qxd4<n>Best: +3.40 » … Rf6 22. Nxc6 Bxc6 23. Be5 d3 24. Bxf6 Nxe4+ 25. c5 Qxc5+ 26. Kh1 Nxf6 27. Qg3 Bb5 28. Qb8+ Bf8 29. Re5 Nd5
! Well seem very logic, but I didn't expect it, I don't know why!
Well this was a very fun game with a lot of surprises!
(Back one for intro)<n>This is my favorite opening move and I see no reason to deviate from it now.
Natural reply. I have seen it so many times, and I have experimented with countermeasures and I have chosen this one...
Pawns cannot touch my Queen! How dare he!?
Wasting time
This paved the way for the most controversial move that I played in this game...
My dainty queen is getting tired of this insolence!
Pawn takes pawn en passant discovered check! YES!
Now that I have established a material advantage, it's time to exploit the lack of center pawns with this check. Not flashy, but workable.
I didn't know which was stronger, so I chose this side.
??? Completely incorrect, for it allows THIS...
After this, black resigned. Black's only true mistake in this game was to underestimate the power that my queen had in the opening and the middle game. After I gained the material, black was toast. Thank you for watching one of my few wins. Feel free to send any comments as to what I might've done better. Thank you! :D<n>-Russell
!0. gh4 Qh4 is curtains, of course. The text gives White his choice of piece captures.
Blacks's pieces look funny. White's pieces look funny. Everybody's pieces look funny.
We are now out of the openings book, but my opponent's move seems fine to me, because it pressures a centre pawn.
Evan's gambit accepted. This game shows the danger of letting the center of the board be controlled by white. With accurate play, black can come out stronger, but not in this game. The more the end nears, the more complex the game becomes. Pay special attention to moves 17-21. I hope you enjoy.
If black takes, the queen takes back, with two threats: 8.Qxg7 and 8.Qe5  followed by 9.Qxa5
The idea is to launch an attack on the king-side, using both Rf1 and Qf3. Tempo is very important in this game, because white has to win back the lost pawn. When black is ready developing, whites advantage will be lost. Somehow I feel this move isn't accurate enough though... If anyone has ideas (Qh5?), please let me know.
This is a big mistake from black: It seems he can take the bishop in the next move, winning a pawn at the end. However, a winning position is also defined by the number of ACTIVE pieces in the field. Ra8 and Qd8 are doing nothing... so, how to exploit this?
Taking the 'bait'. The rest of this game is forced (though quite complicated).
This should teach black to take back when you can. Bd4 is the most threatening piece on the board now. Qxh6  is an option now. Take a look at blacks and Whites possibilities.... none good for black without loss of material. If you see any other option, let me know
And black resigns. I Hope you enjoyed.
I am playing as black.  The Bird's [Thanks chessboard12] opening from my opponent.<n><n>Computer Score: book
Resignation.  This was a fun game. <n><n>Score: +8.20
This blitz was played on a lazy night, and it is not a "great" or "very interesting" game... we both made a lot of mistakes, and specially a lot of overlooks. I annotate it because I wanted to share some thoughts with my opponent, but I was disconnected. The annotation is mainly for us, but feel free to read and comment. I'm sure more experienced players will find funny my comments, the way I got "completely lost" in the middle of the game, and my opponent wasn't daring enough to take full advantage of it. Some nice positions for strategic (more than tactic) analysis can be found in it.
This is to avoid the check after c5. It's playable, but I just prefer this line.
Accepting the game after c4 by black. I should not, but I didn't remembered when playing.
Let's see where it will lead.
Fiinally, white has gone for the exchange. The g2 pawn is poisoned, too. The exchange theory holds.
White blocks my pawn with his queen, half-condemning it to passivity. Well seen, I'm not able to safely push the pawn while white has his dsb.
Instead, I reassetted my pressures. But it was not a good move. I'm lost, at this point, I must admit.
If Bxc5, The queen takes it back with check, so I don't have to fear for my rook. It shields the a5 pawn from his queen's defence, so maybe I can press it with Qc7.
This is a kind of position that only can be broken with a sac but... it is not easy to see. If I could have two pieces on the b column, Bxc5 becomes a possibilty... but I can't!! The queen is dued to c5...
Covering a5 I targeted. This game requires a very solid strategic knowledge and long thinking, not a blitz...
The simple b4, here, takes advantage of the fact that if I take the pawn, Bb6 will win an exchange.
The queen has no escape.
A very difficult sequence to see, specially in such a quiet and sometime pointless game. Thank you for reading!
20. Re7 - a serious bone in the throat for black.
Standard queen opening
The opening progresses
The Queen moves yet again, now for the fourth time. White has lost momentum and position. The control of the game has shifted to Black with more of the white side of the board under Black control than the other way around.
the rhythm of the game continues.
This is an interesting move. White pushes a Pawn to gain a territorial advantage.
protecting Nd2, but I am lost.
I think what this is a good move, gain space and restring he black knigth.
Poor move, I do not see Kb8!!!!!! 44 Ka7 Win... I am desilusionated for this move
Takes back the pawn.
Black's pieces are placed strategically. White cannot check black's king, and makes a pawn capture...
E11 : bogo indian defense, nimzovitch variation
Now White can claim some advantage from the doubled pawns of Black. The trouble being, the doubling only hurts black from any winning chances since his pawns on the King side now have little chance of making any advantage there from creation of a passed pawn which is highly unlikely. But this does not help WT since defensively the K-side BL pawns are still functional.
WT can trade Bishops here. But then the prior remarks about the K-side pawns would not apply to those on the Q-side as well. And WT would have a pawn on b3 to defend from BL attacking it with his open file and potentially would end up having to tie his pieces to that task. Which makes no headway toward winning. But overall, this is a very drawish looking game irregardless.
Knight endings are inherently drawish in theory, but inherently not drawn in practice, for they seem to bring out the error potential of any player who does not understand their nature fully or who tends to play a bit too quickly. Indeed it is my ending of choice to enter when possible if I am seeking to score against any fast moving players.
50.Nd7 ! Nf8 51.Nxf8 Kxf8 52.Kf6 Queens the most rapidly
6. ...... Ne7 - development but it hems in black's dsb.
12. ....... gxf5 - leaves the g file wide open for Freddy, but how can he exploit it?  Black no doubt would have liked to have put a rook on g8 but unfortunately for him the h pawn is hanging.  It would be very dangerous for black to castle kingside here and his queenside is clogged up.  The centre is very solid so the BK looks safe, but white is Master Freddy!
Zuckertort chooses a different gambit -- the Vienna Gambit. In any case it will make for an exciting game: gambits usually do, unless they are declined.
Rice has equalized the material, but his Q is dangerously exposed.
Zuckertort takes advantage, swapping down. His passed KP will be a bigger advantage with every pair of pieces exchanged.
Zuckertort pounces on this mistake, augmenting his material advantage by obtaining two pieces for a Rook.
In addition to his central passed Pawn, Zuckertort now threatens to convert his flank majority on the Q-side into a second passer.
With this forcing move, Zuckertort induces the exchange of all the remaining pieces, setting up a winning K and P end game.
A short game, mate with no captures.  A good reminder that the point of the game is checkmate not capturing pieces.
Book opening, Philidor's Defense.
An interesting, though not unusual, move.  Ne7 provides an alternative if I decide to swap pieces at c6.  On the down side, a number of his pieces are temporarily blocked.
He pushes the attack and has me retreating a bit.
Checkmate with 1 piece.  No captures.  My opponent has unwisely surrounded his king with his own pieces.
last book move
Equal game here
This is my latest battle against kaboes, who, as I write, is currently 2nd in the Fast Ladder.  I'm 71st.  My record hitherto against him doesn't look bad but I think all my wins came relatively early in our history.  Anyway, looking for a hoick up the ladder, I decide to play a solid opening...<n><n>This commentary was written before reading the computer analysis.  I've then added computer commentary.  I think this demonstrates that I didn't have a clue what was going on most of the time!
Now Black takes the opportunity to make it 2 Bishops against 2 Knights.  Which is better in this position?
?!  Onwards and upwards!<n><n>But, of course, the computer calls this an inaccuracy
Moving the Q off the d-file would have sacrificed the d-pawn but I couldn't see a mating attack that would have made it worthwhile and Black's Q defended the Rh8 which might otherwise have been picked up after 22. Qb2 Bxd5 23. Nxd5 Rxd5 24. Qb8+ Kd7.  I don't remember considering the possibility I've just seen now, though, of 24. Qb7+ Kd8 or Kd7 25. Qxd5+.  Black would not, therefore, have been able to respond with Bxd5, so probably 22. Qb2 would have been stronger here.  22...Rxd5 would have sacrificed the exchange for the sake of defending b7.  It will be interestign to see the computer's take on this.
Now it's a straightforward 5v5 K and P ending, each of us having one passed pawn but Black's K is nearer to White's pawn and White's K is outside Black's queening square.  Black has the advantage (-3.31 according to the computer).
I believe the Sicilian (1...c5) is the best response to e4. Black opens up the position too quickly in this game and gives White a lead in development, which my friend exploits nicely.
Opening lines for more development while controlling the centre.
Black didn't think anything of a3, but didn't realize he was castling into a weak structure. This move appears losing since Black picks up a rook with check, but material is nothing when your opponent's king is mateable
Suddenly Black is totally lost. His queen is far from the action and can no longer defend a6. Black's position is weak and underdeveloped due to developing his queen too early. And castling queenside was definitely the totally losing move.
I'm not sure if Black even saw the mate, but if he tries to stop it, then White takes the queen and has a massive material advantage.
Recently, I've been using the latter, even though it does offer Black the chance to force the swap of my LSB by playing ..Na5 before I've provided the B with an escape route.
This B has now made 4 out of the first 10 moves, which seems to go against all opening principles but it has also caused Black to use at least 3 moves to push it back, including putting his knight on the rim, where it is dim ... Now the B bolsters e4 and points indirectly at Black's castled position, with plenty of potential for effectiveness later in the game.  The Ruy Lopez is typically a slowly developing game with plenty of potential attacks forthcoming, once White has established his pieces on good squares.
I play the pawn thrust anyway.  I've been experimenting on Gameknot recently with lines involving d3 first, in the fashion of Michael Adams, but I don't have his skill in strangling opponents and often end up too cramped myself.
!?  This took me by surprise but I couldn't see any advantage to this over the more normal ...Qc7 or continuing with redeploying the DSB.  Later in the game, though, the Q provided a useful defence of Black's third row from here.
This seems a good move, skewering Ne5 and Bc2 while defending f6 with the Q.
This move overloads my R.
Black opens the diagonal to my f-pawn and Kg1 while threatening to march this pawn to promotion
and, short of time, Black offered the draw, which I gladly accepted, knowing that I'd blown a winning position but not, at that time, knowing exactly how or when.  I was a nervous wreck for several minutes after this, but reassured as my colleagues' results came in.  We were 3-2 up with just the top board in progress and looking good for a draw when I left.
the game consisted on a Slav defence resulting in a queen side pawn majority for black in exchange for activity and more space for white, eventualy white managed to create a passed pawn but black remained with three pawns against one on the queen side, the exchange of queens and some more manoeuvring lead to two distant passed pawns for black against one blocked central passed pawn for white, the transition to pawns endgame would favour black, so white was forced to accept a technical drawn rooks endgame
QGD Slav (D17), Carlsbad variation
so white has the initiative, I'll just have to hang on, and latter try to exploit the queenside pawn majority on the endgame
N already played was Rd8 in the drawn game, Elsness Frode (NOR) - Collins Sam (SCO), Goteborg (Sweden), 2005
white is concentrating his efforts on the queens wing and on a minority attack
just wast of time
! inviting the exchange of queens... white has more space, but I'm exchanging pieces at a steady pace, so he would probably have a lots of problems to solve in the endgame, we are reaching it fast!
e4 was played nevertheless so I'll exchange it, so white could not get any pawn support to his passed pawn
to create two passed pawns, white has to capture the b pawn as if not I would have two connected passed pawns and a laborious but possible win
I've sent a draw offer, let wait and figure if my opponent sees this as a draw, or has some other ideas for the position... as I see it is a sterile position, with nothing to do for white!
this or g4... after my reply I think g4 is next in line
this time he gets it right... now is easy just have to capture the rook!
now I'll sacrifice the h pawn to try and force a draw... if Kxh6 Rf6+ Rf6 Kf7... and white's king is trapped on the h column depending on his reply I can even win this game if he plays with as much objectiveness as before
now let's see what does white plays here?
Sicilian Defense. I didn't know what to make of 3. a3 (heck, maybe that's a main line for white that I don't know) so I just forged ahead on general opening principle.
Not 19. ... Bxd5 because after 20 Pxd5 black has two threatened pieces and can only save one. Athough, up in material, trading a bishop for two pawns wouldn't be a game breaker, but it's best to be avoided. If I had known what those pawns had in store for me later, I might have seriously considered liquidating them.
better is 6....Kh8.<n> <n>this move exposes black's K.
I'm not sure if this is the right knight, but I don't think I'll regret it too much.
This was a game played with a time control of 15 minutes plus a 10 second increment.
Guarding the e-pawn while opening up a diagonal for the bishop.
Offering the trade of queens.
I have a passed pawn!
thinking behind this is simple attack on a7 pawn after 9. Be3 as well as development. Queen in a very weak position though and whites opening is severely flawed.
As i refer to in the first page this is where my opponent advised me he lost heart and felt he lost the game and threw away his victory. My low rating little plan had worked.
wins back the pawn white lost so easily.
I understand this but i think it could have waited this defeats purpose of Rh2
? spoke to opponent at time. He advised this was a mistake he should have played Ref2
black has now lost the match but this move seals it.
Black resigns and i snatch victory from the jaws of a easy defeat! <n>my opening was terrible and had no right to win that match however 1 mistake and a period of tempi allows for a nice little match.<n>I'd like to thank my opponent for allowing a rematch to a lower rated player who should have been a easy victory!<n><n>Lessons to be learn't from this match:<n><n>Keeping tempi rocks!<n><n>and the big one: If you lose dont be sore about it smile and move on to the next game and take what you have learn't from that game. There is no need to be unpleasent and say "your lucky". chess, i feel, is about respect, humility and fun.<n><n>Thanks to my opponent for the game and my motivation.<n><n>David.
king's opening
this is the final attack in which i succeeded..
Bishops Opening, Ponziani Gambit
Hi everyone!<n><n>This game was another nailbiter.  I looked destined for a 15-16 point loss when I found a match-winning trump card.  My a pawn.  I had the black pieces and I went for a kingside attack in the late middlegame which failed leaving dmaestro with a dangerous passed h pawn.  This gave Glenda a new role - a blocker!  She did that really well but before she was reduced to this ultra-mundane assignment she managed to remove white's a2 pawn leaving my a pawn passed.  It was a real worry that white's dsb controlled the a1-h8 diagonal, protecting his own passer and preventing mine from queening.  But somehow the game turned suddenly in my favour.  Anyway, we pick up the action on move 9 where I choose to move Glenda to e8 (recommended by Master Freddy), white replies with 10. Ne6.
18. bxc3 - B for N trade and now white's pawn structure is compromised.  However, white has the bishop pair and they could become a real swine for me pore ole 'enry!
Hi everyone!<n><n>This is my third game in Master Freddy's mini-tournament about the Sicilian Grand Prix Attack.  For me it was third time lucky in respect of clocking up my first win (although the Low Draw with Yoshark - which he annotated, I was extremely lucky!).  In response to 9. Bxg4 I try a different response, g6 to see what happened there and it certainly worked out well.  Anyhow, on with the match.  We pick up the action on move 9.
Good choice. Get a centre p and open lines for Q and B. But I hope this is the first move of your plan !
develop - but with defense
good developing move - clears way for 0-0 - carries a threat of BxN with Nxp following
this is more about opening the e file
it is hard to see any defense here
Opening up the cfile for assault.
? allows black to gain two pieces for a rook and pawn.
King's Pawn Opening.
Passed Pawns prefer to be pushed.
Vienna Game - "Willkommen bei Wien"
Italian Game - "Benvenuti in Italia"
I think Black should have played 6. ...Nxe4 7.Nxe4 d5 for a more comfortable middle-game.<n><n>Edit: Ignore the above. Thanks l-d-j for reminding me about the Bishop on c5. Black should have just castled instead.
9. Nxf7! In the heat of a blitz game calculations are rarely exact. I played this move in the hope of getting some tactical fun out of what seemed like a rigid position. At the time it seemed dodgy but I have not found a refutation to it. An even stronger play was 9. Nxd5 Nxd5 10. d4 Bxd4 11. c3
While there are really no "good" moves left for Black, this one is "less good" than most others.
I reclaim some lost material.
This is definitely a learning game. I hope it is an eye-opener to others interested in the sharp attacking possibilities of Classical lines.
So white recovers the pawn, while I have to defend c7. But I went for a wild game, as always.
But he went for the exchange.
Yahoo! Every piece is in the game...
Nf4 attacks g2, but... is this enough? The wise choice was Ba5, but I bet again.
and white is lost. I didn't play this, actually, but this was the right way.
An opening experiment; I usually play the Sicilian. In this game I prepare to defend against the Ruy Lopez.
The Archangelsk variation. Black neither takes the pawn nor commits his bishop to e7.
Haven't found a non e4-opening to stick with me yet, so we begin with the French defense!
For the most part, when Black tries to wade in via these more passive pawn-openers, I enjoy going for the center immediately. However, Black has an intriguing variation in mind...
I really don't mind the idea of Bb4. My central development is nearly complete.
Instead, I hit the queen. I could have played this several moves ago, but allowing Black to explore with other pieces almost seems to have cramped him worse than if I let my enemy remain virtually sealed by just chasing immediately all those moves ago.
Black's Queen doesn't have many places to go. If Qg6, then forced becomes Nh4! Qh7, Bd3 g6, or else the Queen must be given up. In this line, the kingside is cramped and misplaced, and slightly more defensible for Black would appear to be aiming for a O-O-O. But this would require at least two more moves of development, and White already has an attacking synergy. If Qd8, O-O-O is virtually outright discouraged and Black has lost massive amounts of tempo. White has a clear advantage here already- which you're about to see me blow completely.
I mean- seriously, I told myself my Queen had this square covered, but how in the heck did I forget the fact that my king now has two pieces pinned to it?!
Black takes the chance to castle while I struggle to get back on my feet.
Now, Black plays this. As to why, I haven't the faintest. In merely ten moves, the entire position is thrown right back in Black's face. An opening blunder, followed by my own throwaway, and this begins probably the biggest meltdown I've ever had the joy of unfolding in a game of my own...
It's either play this, and have the Queen trapped among fellow Black pieces, or play Qa3, having the queen trapped among enemy White pieces after 18. b5.
Okay, let's see here... Black cannot play Qa5, or- a3! c5, Bxa8 and White takes the Rook absolutely free of charge and the Queen is too trapped to do anything about it. So if Black can't play Qa5, the other line was 17. b4 (Qa3), b5 Qb2, 19. Rab1 and the Queen falls after that- so Black cornered both royals after not answering 15. Bf4 with ...Qe6. Was there really no saving this queen, besides spotting this overly convoluted trap all the way back from his three moves ago?
With Black's Q-side on lockdown, I start turning my focus to the kingside.
Meh. Black tries to prepare for his next move. I don't like this move, but I've got no better alternatives for Black, as the King is just beyond saving at this point.
In return, Black's remaining power pieces remain imprisoned, and they will never reach the King to save it in time, as all that remains for his safety are mismatched pawns.
-And now it's Mate in 5. So the computer states every time Black attempts to free the pieces, it's a losing blunder, but honestly, what other choice is there?
And here it is! The completed Mating net. Trying to get better at these, but all the sharp play this game demanded from me in order to keep on my feet made playing my opponent so much more fun. There was a lot of unusual play, unusual play that I had to keep myself focused on careful, calculated moves, because I saw the punishment in overstepping too soon before the game had ended. There was another game as Black I had due to the League setup, which was just as fun, albeit it more obvious and quicker. Hope you enjoyed reading this game as much as I enjoyed playing it! Thanks for reading this annotation! :)
White puts off making the choice of c4 vs e4, though this historically signals a preference for c4.
?! Not unseen, but not standard either. 2...Nf6 is seen more often. The issue with this move is generally that it blocks up more of Black's light squares--his LSB is frequently difficult to develop in this opening even without this extra blockage.
Black has no good way to hold on to the d-pawn (again, Nf6 at any point before this would have helped greatly), so he drops it in exchange for a bit of freedom and chances at counterplay.
This threat is actually a bluff, but it's not an obvious one. If Black takes 10...axb5, White will win an exchange after 11.Qxa8! Qxa8 12.Nc7+, regaining the Queen with superior position and a Rook for a Bishop.
! Seizing the opportunity, Black reclaims his pawn, opens the long diagonal for his KB and is about to trade off White's good Bishop to boot (after 11.Qd1 Nxe2 12.Qxe2).
22...Qc6 was better; at the time I wanted to keep up the pressure along the a7-g1 diagonal but Black should be using his Queen to create threats all over the board, rather than trying to force any one particular break. Black's next several moves reflect this bad thinking--there's a definite advantage, but he's just not making the right kind of choices with his extra power.
Freeing the Queen at long last. Black's KR is *still* not really in the game.
1-0. Black makes it easy on himself and moves without looking at the consequences: it's mate in two after 49.Bg7+ Ke8 50.Nf6# (or 49...Kg8 50.Nf6#). Black's continuous assessment of the situation as 'winning' despite his position's obvious flaws led him to a series of inaccurate moves and, eventually, a totally needless loss. As the saying goes, 'Pride goeth before a fall.'  Many thanks to toughplaya for the fantastic game! I'll be annotating the second game in this match soon. As always, thanks for reading, and comments are much appreciated!
Queen's gambit Accepted
I don't want a pawn rush this early
opening a lane for his black bishop
I think I would have taken it with the pawn
so I'll delay him
I would have played Qxd4, but he castles
let's try this again...
?! The Latvian Gambit. Black trades material (sometimes quite a lot of it) for open lines on the kingside. It's quite dubious and basically never seen in master play, but can be strong against unprepared opponents--and in blitz, everyone considers everyone else unprepared!
Gaining space for development with tempo.
The e-file, and the e-pawn in general, will be vulnerable until the BK can vacate it, usually to the queenside. Opposite-flank castling tends to favor whichever side has more midgame attacking possibilities, and with the half-open f file, the situation looks like it would favor Black at the moment (as it very often does in this opening).
I think it would have been better to just move the Bishop back to g5, rather than opening the g-file for Black's heavy pieces.
Let's take a second to analyze. Black has the bishop-pair (though his DSB is pretty worthless at the moment) and some beautiful open lines against the WK. His center is decent and he has better activity, but he'll have trouble in an endgame due to his worse pawns. White, on the other hand, lags in development but has a solid position and a very strong Knight at e4. His other, more lackluster pieces can also be quickly activated by initiating a queenside attack. I'd give Black a very slight edge here, but only if he can convert his activity quickly.
? A few moments after this move, I decided it was probably a mistake. It's intended to provoke 15.g3, but 15.Ng3 is a far superior way to eliminate the threat; forcing Black to move the Bishop again and clearing e4 for a Queen or Rook. I'm not sure what the correct move for Black was in this situation--14...Rhg8 15.Ng3 e4 looks interesting--but I'm pretty sure the text is inferior.
Tying the Queen to the defense of the Knight, and putting indirect pressure on the very weak f2 pawn. This also threatens to win material outright with ...Bg4! White's choice to trade off his Knight has left him struggling to find enough material to defend against Black's onslaught down the open files.
?? Not good enough. White avoids the various discovered-check lines and flees from the mating threat, but leaves his Queen in the lurch.
0-1. With Q+B vs R+N, Black will have an easy time cleaning up the remaining White defenders, so White resigns. Many thanks for a great game, grandpoobah! Comments are much appreciated; thanks for reading!
D5 to control e6 and c6. This also restricts development of my N on b8. Bf5 to develop a piece, establish an early threat.
Black finishes the exchange and is up a pawn with solid footing.
White pushes Queen side pawns. I don't see the merits of that move at this juncture. Black attempts to exchange bishops.
White moves his defense on the 3rd rank. Opens a window for black to exude massive pressure.
Sicilian: Rossolimo Attack.  I often play Bb5 against the Sicilian to avoid standard opening lines.
I think i went wrong in the opening in this game and my opponent developed a very strong position and had a positional bind which i was fortunate enough to overcome and managed to win this game which was very important in the tournament we are both in as with his score of 100% i considered him a serious rival for 1st place so knew i was going to have to fight hard. The game was certainly very interesting and though a draw should have been a fair result we were both clearly playing for the win.
The easiest choice of the game since it is forced.
This Knight move is very good. I did not realise how annoying it was going to be. The piece is a monster and controls a lot of key squares. My joy last turn was replaced with a gasp as i struggled to find a plan against it.
White too clearly has problems and can't see a clear plan as looking for cheap checks is not going to win you the game. I think after 23.Nd6 this game is drawn but i was happy to see this.
After this i was not convinced. Exchanging his weakness on e4 for my pawn on f6 did not appeal as if you take all the pieces off bar the kings my pawn structure is much better.
its a move but not sure what it is achieving
This is definately wrong. His best chance was Rook b4-b3 stopping the check but i understand why he did not as after i take with check i pick up the a2 pawn and have a great chance of converting with him having little counterplay.
But he takes it.
So the killer blow comes.<n>A very exciting battle and i can't wait for the rematch in the 2nd game of the tournament we play!!!
He resigned.
